An insane (use insanity table in DMG) set of animated Robe of Useful Items paces the beach, stumbling, feeling particularly *empty*.
An injured Ankheg, it's split carcass filled with sand and a collapsed tunnel near it, lies in the sand belly up. Will shoot an Acid Spray one final time at the first person to come within 10 feet. Inside of it, it's blade speared through its corpse, is a musket.
A Banshee (CR4) kneels on the beach front, over the water, wailing incessantly and attacking any who comes within 60 FT.
A large snapping turtle with a glass box, covered in velvet drapes, is come across by the party. On the inside is a series of miniaturized little people, one of whom owns a magical item shop. There is also a small circus, snacks and processions, a little theatre, all sorts of Boardwalk-type games, etc. the place is called the \"Cockadoodledo\". Everyone there is very eccentric, in a fun and charismatic way. Like little Willy Wonka's, each and every one of them.
The party comes across two Carrion Crawlers (CR2) feasting on the corpses of a washed up ship, formerly holding of 2d8 crewman and a captain who are all now dead. If the party attempts to move them away, they will aggressively defend this delicious salty meal. Once most of the corpses are devoured. One of the crawlers will attempt to kill the other for control of the remaining corpses. As it stands currently, they are too interested in the scrumptious food to worry about territory.
A lone, elderly, Centaur stands at the coast in a small 1-person encampment, watching the ocean as the waves roll in.
A Chuul (CR4) makes its way out of the water, looks around a bit, and approaches the party completely willing to do anything to get the party to say \"Chaeeron reigns supreme!\" It communicates with them telepathically.
The party comes across a Cockatrice (CR1/2). It is curious about them and will not do anything to attack them, unless there is \"any hint of danger\". If there is, it will go insane and attack them viciously. Otherwise, it will saunter off after a few minutes or perhaps go after a nearby mouse or some other small creature.
Ghost Ship.
Whirlpool.
Pirates!
Whale Sighting.
Beached Whale.
A Plesiosaurus (CR2) is spotted.
A Dragon Turtle (CR17) brushes up against the ship, prompting the sailors (if it is recognized) to dump all valuables over.
They come across an island... It contains cannibals.
They come across an island... It contains crazy wizards.
They come across an island... It contains strange cults.
They come across an island... It contains ancient ruins.
They come across an island... It contains the last survivor(s) of a forgotten civilization.
They come across an island... It contains the undead remains of a shipwrecked crew.
They come across an island... It contains a holy site of on of the undersea humanoids.
They come across an island... It contains a magic well that grants cursed wishes.
They come across an island... It contains treasure hidden in a cave protected by water elementals.
They come across an island... It contains the lair of a pirate crew.
They come across an island... It contains a clockwork island.
They come across an island... It contains a 20,000 leagues under the sea - type clockwork submarine.
They come across an island... It contains a lost tribe.
They come across an island... It contains a lost tribe that wants to stay lost.
