A Behir (CR11) asks the adventurers for assistance to kill a dragon that has made its lair nearby. 
A basilisk (CR3) has created a lair nearby, as evidenced by petrified creatures in the area.
An Azer (CR2) mines always incessantly, seeking to attain enough bronze to begin crafting new brothers and sisters, so it may no longer be alone.
An elderly enchanted stone chastises the party for being too \"soft\". If they press him, they'll find out he's sad because his twin brother, another stone, had been sluffed off recently. If they ask him for information, they must make a DC30 CHA check or a DC10 STR check.
If contextually appropriate (i.e., the party is not on their way to a dragons lair), they come across a mining operation using a small magical portal to quickly ship any gems they come across. Roll a d6. If the result is from 1-3, it’s a forced-labor camp.
The treasure room of a Beholder (CR14) guarded by a Spectator. Roll for insanity of the spectator.
They come across a bugbear Trimble living in the abandoned lair of a long dead dragon, hoping to one day reestablish its hoard. There are 3d8 bugbears (CR1) and a single chief (CR3). They will not attack the party outright, unless threatened (or if very tempted by expensive jewelry one is faulting). Even then, they will lay traps elsewhere to get the party's goods, not attacking them in their home base - that's ridiculously foolish for them to do. However, if the party is a high enough level, don't be afraid to sic' em on the PC's.
The party enters a very dark area with many entrances and exits. A Carrion Crawler (CR2) ambushes the weakest member of the party from the ceiling with its tentacles, attempting to incapacitate it, carry it off, kill it, and feast on it for a long while.
A Cloaker (CR8) follows the party, waiting for someone to separate from the group before attacking them. 
The party comes across a Cockatrice (CR1/2). It is curious about them and will not do anything to attack them, unless there is \"any hint of danger\". If there is, it will go insane and attack them viciously. Otherwise, it will saunter off after a few minutes or perhaps go after a nearby mouse or some other small creature.
They come across the domain of a simple Cyclops (CR6), living in a cave with all his herd.
A dark mantle (CR1/2) attacks the weakest looking party member.
They come across a large cave, obviously a dragon’s lair, completely looted except for a long gemstone lying near the smashed bones of a nearby dragon. The gemstone contains a Dracolich.
A Drider (CR6), completely mad, attacks the party in a bloodlust.
A group of 2d4+2 Duergar (CR1) lead 1d100 beaten and tired slaves on an expedition for wealth and power, using the slaves as laborers or goods. They carry adequate mining equipment. The Duergar have a combined stash, to be calculated on pg. 137 DMG, CR 5-10.
A Galeb Duhr (CR6), having extremely fine gemstones poking out of it, all over, follows with the party as they travel in any sort of rocky terrain. Unless one of them speaks Terran (and you can usually tell the sort of person who does) he won’t emerge in his humanoid shape, but rather roll alongside them as a large boulder.
An Aarakocra flies over the heads of the party, perching on a nearby ledge and beckoning them forth...
A Chimera (CR6) takes a step out of its lair, and grows (& etc) at the party.
A Harpy (CR1) sings a beautiful song to the party...
Small run-down shrine with a forgotten spirit feeling dejected. Want you to go kick over the arch-rival god's shrine (also run-down and worn out), then it can rest in peace.
Mountain pool with some beautiful flowers on a small island in the middle, clear flowing water (why isn't it frozen?), small cairn/statue/whatever in the middle. Could be a sanctuary for mountain fey, protected by ice mephits or elementals, maybe gems in the water at the bottom of the pool. Maybe the water is magic and freezes solid if something walks in it, trapping the character. Roll initiative.
A pass 'guarded' by a (or several) Trolls demanding tribute to go through unmolested. If the PC's pay up, let them pass without a fight... let the PC's stew on the fact they lost a ton of cash without giving them a real reason to attack the Trolls and get their stuff back.
They meet a beast they've never seen before.
A birds nest sits in a crack in the wall. It has three warm eggs inside
A body hangs by its neck from a chandelier
A broken weapon lies discarded here. It has been sundered by something of great strength.
A cage containing the bones of a child hangs from the ceiling
A ceiling tile falls, narrowly missing the party
A chess board is set up in an alcove with a half finished game laid out
A chicken pecks at the floor
A circle of carefully stacked stones have been arranged in the middle of the hallway
A corpse lies on the floor. The word “SEVEN” has been carved into its skull
A crudely drawn image of a vulture on a wall deeply unsettles the PCs
A curious rat trails the party
A dead cow lies on the floor. It is clearly rotten but has no smell
A deep thumping approaches the party until it sounds like it is in the room with them, then stops
A delicious dessert sits on a wooden stool
A faded sign advertising “Hot Meat Pies” leans against the wall
A frog with a ribbon tied around its neck hops across the floor
A fungus growing along the floor rapidly fades and dies as the PCs approach it.
A gold chamber pot with still warm feces
A group of rats gnaw at the head of an Orc. The body is nowhere to be found
A head with its lips sewn shut lies on the floor
A large cobweb sits in the corner. A first glance a PC sees the name of a loved one written in it, but when he looks back at the web the name is gone.
A large spider crawls out of a PC’s ear
A large, flaming spider screeches as it races about, and is killed by the flames
A lone moth flits around a torch. It seems to pass through solid materials and will slowly fade from sight.
A loose stone reveals the bones of a child
A mask rests on a table. After a moment, it sighs, whispering “You’re not perfect”, before crumbling into dust.
A pack and its contents lie strewn across the ground
A pair of glowing lights is visible in the distance, but fade as the PCs approach.
A PC feels a hand in his pouch, but nothing is missing
A PC finds a slip of paper with his name on it
A PC finds himself unconsciously flipping a coin and nervously checking the outcome
A PC has a flash of a vision in which the other PCs are stone statues
A PC hears a horrid, cacophonous roar which fills his ears and reverberates off the walls. No one else hears this
A PC hears whispering right behind him, but there is no one there
A PC splashes into a puddle that was not there an instant before. He is soaked in stale water
A pigeon lands on a PC’s shoulder. It has a message tied to its foot which reads “Trust no one,” written in the PC’s handwriting
A rat gnaws at a bone nearby and suddenly a hawk swoops down, grabs it, and vanishes around a corner
A severed hand covered in stitches lies on the floor
A sheet of music is pinned to the wall with a dagger
A shield lies on the ground here, ripped into two pieces by something of immense strength.
A single strawberry grows in a pot of earth
A skeletal foot seems to be partially embedded into the wall.
A small flower grows in a crack in the floor.
A small ray of light reaches through a crack in the ceiling.
A spider covered in spines scurries away
A suit of armor crumples to the ground with a human sounding sigh
A tarnished silver key hangs from a ring on the wall
A throbbing spider nest the size of a cat is attached to the ceiling. Several spiders run across it.
A timid voice whispers a PC’s name before laughing and fading away.
A vile liquid bubbles and seeps up from one of the tile-stones.
A wall stone has been shifted, revealing a natural cave entrance
A zombie with no arms or lower jaw follows the party
All of the PCs speak in unison “It is done,” and find themselves feeling elated
An arrow sticks from a chink in the wall
An old ring sits in a crack in the floor
An old trail of blood leads away, as if a body were dragged. It stops suddenly
Bloody footprints left by a large creature lead down the hall, and slowly fade
Dried petals of an unidentifiable flower litter the floor.
Hundreds of insects swarm a corpse
One by one, the lights in the room go out
One PC has a vision of the other PCs being murdered one by one. The killer wears the PC’s face and a smile.
Several headless corpses lie around a chopping block. Their heads are nowhere to be found
Statues of guards flank a bricked up doorway
The distinct skittering of tiny paws can be heard for a moment.
The dust is thick in the air here, and the PCs feel the need to cough.
The eyes of a moth-eaten painting lazily follow the PCs.
The floor here is crawling with maggots.
The full name of someone dear to one of the PCs is scratched into a wall
The ground beneath the PCs’ feet suddenly becomes extremely sticky.
The lights dim and it appears as if the PCs are moving through a field of stars for a moment
The party leader gets a whiff of the perfume a loved one used to wear
The party leader suddenly knows the identity of a killer who committed a crime here long ago
The PCs can hear heavy breathing.
The PCs feel a sudden chill here.
The PCs find that they have all drawn their weapons unconsciously
The PCs have been idly talking about an old friend before remembering that they know no one by that name
The PCs hear the lonely howl of a single wolf.
The PCs hear the sounds of a massive metal blade being dragged across the ground. It slowly fades into the distance regardless of the PCs’ actions.
The PCs hear the sounds of drums. Drums, in the deep. They fade as the PCs move.
The PCs suddenly realize that their footfalls have been completely silent for several minutes. As soon as they do so, their footsteps can be heard again
The remains of an adventurer are pinned to the wall with daggers
The smell of the sea is overwhelmingly strong in a corner of the room
The sound of a conversation the PCs had earlier can be clearly heard from behind a door
The sound of hurried footsteps echo, and suddenly stop
The sound of shattering pottery echoes from around a corner. If the PCs investigate they find a broken vase and no one in sight
The sound of singing floats from a doorway and fades
The torch here seems to be burning a strange color. It returns to normal as soon as the PCs interact with it.
The wall has been carved away, and a large standing stone has been placed in the newly formed alcove. It is covered in strange writing
There is a box here faintly emitting a sweet aroma. It is filled with decaying fruit.
There is a desk and a pair of chairs here. One of the chairs is covered in dried blood.
There is a locked box here, filled with tiny slips of paper with names on them. Approximately half the names are crossed out.
There is a pile of teeth here.
There is a scroll here describing the trial and messy execution of one of the PCs.
There is an empty net here on the ground, ripped and torn to shreds.
Thin metallic shavings form an intricate pattern in the floor.
Two ancient corpses embrace one another
Two cats chase each other and run past the PCs
Water drips slowly from the ceiling, but it distinctly smells like blood.
What appears to be the carcass of a rat lies on the floor. As the PCs approach, it suddenly springs into action and darts away.
When a PC steps on a certain stone he hears a click, but nothing happens.
The lair of a mad god who's sphere of influence was a few dozen people who lived in a ramshackle keep beside an underground lake. The god was an old man dressed in a long night shirt with an aura of fear around him that even the Paladin couldn't quite shake. The keep was built thousands of years ago by the gods to cage one of their mentally unstable fellows. His "followers" are decedents of soldiers stationed there to keep anyone from freeing him. Lately the god has become even more unstable, and the magical bonds keeping him tied to the keep are weakening.
A boat. Sitting on a small island in the middle of a lake. The island is small enough they can see that there is nothing on it. That took an entire session as they tried to figure out how to get to the boat without disturbing any potential monsters lurking in the lake. (no monsters, the boat just became loose and beached itself on the island.)
An abandoned underground city filled with traps and not much else. It was meant to be a last ditch defensive position in a war, but the battles moved on from the location and the victors never came back.
Raiding party made up of a group of hot headed arrogant (and young,) elven lords looking for retribution against Dark Elves who had recently kidnapped a female elf who was the sister to one lord and the betrothed to another. The elves were generally outclassed and needed the PC's help to bulk up their forces. But the female elf wasn't kidnapped, she ran away with her Drow lover.
Unexpected tunnels. Remember much of the Underdark is going to be natural caverns and tunnels. These are usually carved by water over the centuries. For added fun you can have them face a challenging monster, who leaves them the choice of fighting, or diving down that unknown tunnel that goes even further underground and leads to potentially even more danger.
Drow slave work party made up of a mixed group of humans, orcs, and half orcs. When rescued, many turned out to be evil themselves or suffered from Stockholm syndrome.
Basilisks turn their prey to stone, with their supernatural gaze, and them consume the stone. They can be trained, if raised in captivity from an egg. Have your adventurers face off against a basilisk and its master in an underground cave.
Behirs lair in hard to reach locations such as deep pits, high caves in cliff walls. Have a behir attack from ambush in one of these locations, using the ceiling and walls to its advantage. For a social encounter, have a very full behir decide to aid your adventurers somehow on their way to face a powerful dragon.
These iconic floating spheroid aberrations dismiss all other creatures as lesser beings. Set a beholder in its lair where it gets access to ambient magic for an even greater challenge.
Drow who have failed Lolth in some way can be turned into these twisted creatures of madness. Surround a drider with giant spiders (CR 1 | p. 328) for a tough random encounter in the Underdark. Add in some spellcasting abilities, if the drider was a spellcaster before being transformed into a monstrosity.
Cloakers are usually found lurking alone in dungeons and caves. These stealthy aberrations are named for their resemblance to a dark leathery cloak. By the time a cloaker moves into attack and reveals its white underside, it will already be attacking with bite and tail. Cloakers also have a fear inducing moan and the ability to create illusory duplicates of itself. Have your adventurers interrupt a rare conclave of multiple cloakers for a tougher challenge.
Mind Flayers are psionic tyrants and slavers usually found in the Underdark. They are magically resistant and are natural psionic spellcasters with the ability to detect thoughts, levitate, dominate monster and plane shift. Their abilities and lawful evil alignment make them naturals to create an empire on the backs of mind-controlled slaves. Also called illithids, they are the evil at the heart of many adventures. Bump up a Mind Flayer to a deviant Mind Flayer Arcanist for a higher challenge.
Minotaurs have the ability to perfectly recall any path they have traveled and live to ambush your party as it enters the labyrinth. A minotaur cares little for tactics and will recklessly attack and charge, leaving itself open to counter attacks by those that survive the onslaught. Place one of these savage monstrosities at the center of a labyrinthine set of tunnels or some other maze-like environment.
These massive monsters burrow and chew through solid rock in pursuit of its prey, which is anything it encounters. Purple worms are attracted to noise and can be used as a big surprise interruption for a higher level group fighting an easy battle. A purple worm (or multiple worms) can also be a source of a complex network of tunnels. Defeating a purple worm can be a good time for you to drop some serious treasure on your players as these worms are usually quite filled with precious metal and gemstones, especially if they are hunting in a mine.
These savage and loathsome humanoids can be found in the shallow depths of the Underdark dwelling in filth. Nearly their entire existence is devoted to gathering food. Have a group of troglodytes hunting your lower level adventurers, looking to drag them back to their lair as food.  Have any adventurers who are knocked unconscious in a battle dragged away to be be eaten unless rescued by those left standing.
Looking for food, umber hulks will suddenly tunnel into a cave or burrow into the wall of a passage and wait for your adventurers to pass by. Umber hulks have a confusing gaze that can scramble the mind of those within 30' that look at its eyes. Set an umber hulk at the center of a mystery of disappearing explorers or miners to set-up a tough encounter for lower level adventurers.