A leather harness bearing three short quivers (sized for quarrels, rather than arrows). The first holds a dozen red-fletched etched quarrels, and the third has a dozen white fletched quarrels. (5gp)
Clear crystal pyramid-prolonged stare/concentration = glimpse at historical event/extra planar history, but causes 1d4 Int damage per vent seen
A collection of humanoid figurines, each in unspeakable act of evil, packed in box, wrapped in lamb’s wool.
A merchant’s leather case containing a selection of twenty well-made daggers of varying designs. (2gp each)
Potion of harmless flaying: 1d4 rounds after drinking this potion target produces the illusions of his/her innards becoming outards for 1d6 minutes. The illusion is entirely intangible, but nonetheless real looking.
A wood chip which acts as a magnet, despite its non-metallic nature.
Circlet of Inconsolable weeping
Two disks of hardened quicksilver laying atop one another. If they are separated, a tornado springs up between them – anchored on each end to a disk.
A newly crafted barrel filled with iron nails. (Barrel: 2gp, nails: 3gp)
Bag of Ash. Acts like a jar of infinite water, except it just makes a grey, sooty ash.
A disk of finely polished stone. On one side, the elvish rune for death is inscribed in blackset obsidian. Upon the other, the dwarven rune for life is inscribed in the palest ivory.
Compass of useful items: Like a regular compass, except with multiple needles each pointing toward different useful things, such as north, the nearest source of fresh water, the strongest nearby evil aura, nearest large concentration of gold, nearest civilization (exact definition of civilization may vary by user), and nearest storm. Needles lengthen and shorten as the object gets closer or further away.
Box with runic markings for destroy/to be destroyed containing cursed object
A small, leather-bound book filled with prophecies. All of them will be found to be true, but the last of them is dated just a few weeks ago.
Thirty storm giant minted gold coins, each is the size of a dinner plate and weighs 17 lbs. The image struck on the coins shows a giant hand flicking a human off a table.
A frost giant necklace of silver upon which are pierced 17 human-sized hands (all right hands). (Necklace: 55gp)
Dire bat/eagle wings
A golden signet ring, origin unknown.
Trained rat in wooden cage – sniffs out gold in exchange for treats.
Six giant temple candles. Each is 6’ tall, 1’ thick, and weighs 100 lbs. They are made of fine white wax, rolled in gold dust, and set with emeralds. (320 gps each)
Bioluminescent fluid lantern – shake well, 2d4 hours
A cloak of griffon feathers set on black velvet. (60gp)
A large tome, bound in leather and clasped with gold. A closer inspection of this volume will reveal that each page is perfectly preserved dragon scale, which has been inscribed with the black blood of a fiend. The book describes the four spirits (quicksilver, orpiment, sal ammoniac, sulfur) and seven bodies (gold, silver, iron, quicksilver, lead, tin, copper) of traditional alchemy.
A bandolier holding 8 silver flasks (empty (x3), brandy (x2), acid (x1), ogre blood (x1), gold dust (x1, value of gold: 12gp). (Flasks: 3gp each, bandolier: 5gp, ogre blood (to alchemist): 12gp, acid: 10gp, brandy: 5sp each
A large chunk of raw silver ore (roughly 25 pounds). (5gp; 8gp when smelted) Lolo
A 1’ x 3’ bronze plate bearing the ancient, and secret recipe for Black Mountain Stout
A thick leather satchel containing an adventurers’ kit: 6 wax candles, two pieces of white chalk, two pieces of red chalk, a small bag of (100) clay marbles, a whistle, four pieces of charcoal, three large sacks, six iron pitons, a hammer, a tinderbox with flint and steel, 2 empty copper vials, a chunk of coal, and three large sheets of paper. (10gp)
Poison drips – steadily and continuously – from the tip of a stalagmite which stands alone within a natural cavern deep beneath the surface of the earth.
A tome whose pages have been yellowed with age and used to press metallic leaves of gold, silver, platinum, brass, copper, and bronze.
A small steel shield, triangular, emblazoned with a griffon device in red on a field of gray. This battered shield is inscribed on the interior with the words: “May this shield be your protection in battle, Jallak. Honor the Galbrand name.” (7gp)
A set of pan pipes carved from the bones of a unicorn. When played, they do not make the slightest sound.
A thick copper necklace set with a small aquamarine. (7gp)
A rotting wheelbarrow holding 167 torches. (Torches: 1cp each)
Boots of Dry Land: Made for a pirate game I ran a couple of years ago. The wearer of the boots gains water-walking...With a twist. On any body of salt water, the boots generate a 30 ft. radius of dry, walkable sand beneath the wearer. Which means several party members could benefit from the effect. They functioned for an hour per day, but it didn't have to be continuous.
Demonic themed tarot/playing cards – extra planar repercussions based on game played; tarot tales come true
Bags that summon random animals
The Erian Tapestry. A famous (or forgotten) tapestry depicting the Fall of Erian. The figures upon the tapestry move and change, re-enacting – in an artistically abstracted form – the legendary battle over the course of half an hour.
Glow stones
A hand axe and belt sheath.
A collection case holding fifty spent wands – crafted by the finest craftsman and enchanted by the mightiest wizards of a bygone age, but now reduced to mere wood, bone, and glass.
Thunder Hammer – deafening or stunned, DC save, 40’ radius
An old boot filled with chunks/flakes of silver-bearing quartz ore (50 gp)
A dwarven holy symbol in silver; shaped into a flaming war-hammer set against an anvil-shaped backdrop. (55gp)
An iron torc with six small silver figurines: A hare, a horse, a spear, a wolf’s head, a simple circle, and an oak tree. (9gp)
An elegant carved comb of oak, engraved with the name Aethelren and decorated with twin dragons. Elsewhere, a similar comb of ash, engraved with the name Ilthorien and decorated with twin unicorns, can be found.
A delicately carved hope chest of polished cherry wood. The box contains nothing but a remarkably fine, gray sand drawn from some unknown locale. Beneath the new moon, this sand glows a faint blue.
Waterskin of inexplicable upgrading – water to wine, wine to brandy, brandy to spirits, spirits to dwarven ale, dwarven to poison, poison to water
A leather vest with climbing gear: 12 iron pitons, a hammer, 50’ of silk rope, a grappling hook, a set of bronze crampons, thick leather gloves, and a leather harness seat. (32gp for all)
A cache of ancient coins left from the elder days of the world and made by a civilization utterly alien to the values of today: They are carved from bloodstone, moonstone, and jacinth – with unknown faces and unreadable runes decorating their surface.
Trap-checking chickens… Unfortunately the chickens aren’t very good at it…
Collapsible rod – 1’, 10’, or 20’ – any size you need!
A miniature crystal – small enough to lie upon the outstretched finger of a halfling child – glows softly, and pulses whenever an object colored red is brought near.
Cayon torches – burn different colors for each torch
Bottle of Giant’s urine – repels monsters
A leather bag containing 6 green dragon scales (young adult). (5gp each)
A collection of 6 elephant tusks. (2x12gp, 4x10gp)
A set of 8 silver spoons. (6sp each)
A goblin skull that has been dipped in molten copper. (1gp)
A small, white jade pendant without necklace. The pendant depicts a unicorn rampant with a cracked back leg. (10gp)
Giant-King’s platinum necklace with crimson diamond worn by dragon
Within a rotten pouch found upon the body of a long dead soldier is a parchment with an unbroken seal. If the seal is broken and the message read, it warns its would-be recipient to guard against an eminent betrayal.
The sapling of a young tree. Within a few minutes it will have grown into a wizened oak. A few moments more and the tree slowly fades from existence as a young seedling pushes up from the ground and begins the cycle anew.
A decorative fountain, crafted elegantly from a single block of jade and decorated with gold leaf, in which the water flows in the wrong direction.
A barrel filled with broken crockery. Near the bottom is a mouse nest in which, amidst the tangled mouse fur, lays a silver ring set with a polished tigerseye. (4gp)
A pair of pole mounted fans made of giant raven feathers
The mounted head of a deer, its impossibly massive horns possessed of a thousand and one points.
A trolls hand mounted on a three foot rod. It will grasp objects or make a fist. Commands: Grabit, Leggo, Fist.
Enchanted talking toad – polymorphed noble – knowledge of multiple regions, religions & other worldly strangeness
Ring of a god
A sundial which runs backwards.
Crystal sword – 1 instant hit for max damage – shatters into crystal shards
A large arbalest/bolt thrower. It is disassembled and crated for shipping. It requires four strong men to lift. When reassembled, it hurls a 5’ bolt for 2d12 dmg. (3000 gp)
A silver hand mirror with mother-of-pearl backing. (28gp)
An age-worn ivory figurine, which, nonetheless, bears an uncanny resemblance to a young woman the characters have just met.
A roughly beaten golden orb, roughly 10 inches in diameter. The orb is etched with the likeness of an orcish skull with an axe embedded in it. This was used by an orcish chieftain as his “royal orb”. (72gp)
A purple-colored apple. (This enchanted apple has all the properties of a potion of Cure Light Wounds. 50gp)
Ring of Fake invisibility.
A rotted saddlebag with coins spilling out. The copper coins have some verdigris, and the silver coins are badly tarnished. (142 cp, 46sp, 2gp)
An arm chair carved entirely of a single piece of coal. Inlaid with silver runes.
A miniature model of a pyramid, which glows a faint blue. If a deceased creature of Diminutive or Fine size is placed beneath the pyramid, they will be reincarnated in 1d20 hours. The pyramid can manifest this ability once per lunar month.
A well-sealed cake box with intact cake
A 40’ coil of rare sea shells strung on a silken cord
Magical Camo Paint that provides no protection, but grants 10 to disguise. The only way it works, however, is if the wearer is wearing no clothes, and covered head to toe in the stuff. It's hilarious when a disguise check fails, and they realize they are staring at a naked Gnome.
A small bag containing 58 clay sling bullets. Each bullet has a 12 gp opal hidden inside.
A cask full of bronze caltrops (6 pounds). (3gp)
A complete set of bronze and carved stone weight training equipment issued to the 4th army of the Ancient Empire
A tiny jar of glitternight dust (a narcotic)
A small sack containing 32 carved ivory mice
Exploding gold coins (Looks legit. Should avoid contact with real gold coins for safety...)
Mechanical claw mountain boots
Crystal prism (d20 x 10 gp)
Brass dungeon compass, runic markings, always points to nearest exit.
A small cedar cask of dwarven pipe tobacco. (25gp)
A cursed fishing pole made of blackened ash. It will never catch a fish – although, if one attempts to use it unbaited, they will succeed in catching skeleton fish.
An electrum pendant shaped like a curled-up cat. (6gp)
Studded leather armor made from sharkskin set with iron disks. (44gp)
A large (18”x28”), rectangular electrum sheet with ancient writing on it. The writing, if deciphered, is a brief history of a powerful magical item known as the House of Winds, with several clues as to where the item may have been lost fourteen hundred years ago. The House of Winds is described as an ornate mithral helm of legendary power. (75gp)
Pouch of poisoned throwing needles (see dagger damage & dart range)
A large barrel of pickled eels
An astrologer’s chart, inscribed with the finest instruments and the greatest precision upon a vellum which is both supple and expensive. Close inspection by those with the proper knowledge, however, reveals that these charts were constructed around an entirely different night sky – and, possibly, a caledrical system and length of year unlike anything known upon this world.
Dagger with blood line to drain victim’s blood
A butter churn made of bone slats, bound with hoops of silver. A scrimshaw scene depicting a crowd of human villagers beating a Halfling with shovels and hoes wraps around it.
Dehydrated Homonculi
An obsidian figurine of a dolphin which is always wet to the touch.
Metal box of unidentifiable powder
The skeletal remains of a long-dead warrior, wearing a suit of plate armor which has long since tarnished. The name of every warrior to ever die by the last wearer’s hand has been inscribed upon the front and back of the chest plate, covering nearly every inch of its surface with chaotically written, black runes.
Salve of Silence – armor improving sound nullifier
A weapons cabinet, unlocked and immovable, containing: 12 score arrows (1gp/score), 40 javelins (1gp each), 120 crossbow bolts (1sp/each), and a short bow (30gp). (Total value: 94gp)
Frolees five page guide to mustaches and beards
½ of fool’s gold
D8 springs of wolvesbane
A pen made from a raven’s feather. Through some magical means it writes continuously from an inexhaustible supply of golden ink upon whatever piece of parchment may be near by.
A pair of bear fur knee breeches
Dagger of slicing – ignores armor bonus
A wand of eye poking, four charges. It will unerringly poke out the eye of a target creature within arm’s reach.
An electrum drow house-medallion bearing the image of a crimson scorpion with the house name inscribed on the back in the drow tongue (House Ulrather). (20gp)
An abacus with counting beads made of ivory, silver, gold, and vitrified eye balls (120 gps)
Random monster taxidermy
The tiny figurine of a fertility goddess, carved from a rare, fist-sized pearl. Found deep beneath the surface of the earth, for two weeks after it is brought to the surface any woman touching the figurines will become pregnant. After the two week period has expired, the figure will never work again (or until returned to its original spot for 1d12 months).
A plain mirror with a frame of pale ashwood. Whenever someone looks in the mirror, however, they perceive an elven face in place of their own.
Ring of Sustenance – require no food/water/rations
Ring of Ghosts: the wearer of the ring can see and communicate with the ghost of any intelligent being that has died in the past 24 hours within a 1 mile radius. After the 24 hours, the ghost disappears. The ghosts are only visible and audible to the wearer, but remain intangible. Also, the ghosts likely aren't very cooperative if the players killed them.
A broad dagger with a hilt that can be unscrewed. The space revealed is sufficient to hold up to 25 coins, and currently holds 10 gold coins and 15 silver coins. (Dagger value: 15gp)
A finely woven blue, wool scarf (1gp)
A leaf from the great tree Yggdrasil.
Miniature golden replica of ancient mythical temple – location map inside
A miniature golden chest with tiny emeralds lining the top that trace out a mage’s sigil. The chest is crafted in exquisite detail. (This is the material component of a “Secret Chest” (from the spell of the same name) for the ruthless lady-mage Aumurille, who will likely want it back....) (75gp)
A dagger sheath of bronze, set with a small moonstone. (10gp)
Dust of Coughing and Sneezing
Vial #2 contains speculumia, a slightly greenish opague liquid that when drunk suddenly causes a cloud of smoke and summons an exact copy of whoever drank it. The new person is completely the same as the drinker and will actually think that he is the one who drank the drink, the sudden cloud of smoke will prevent anyone witnessing the situation from being able to tell which one is the original person.
The Torturers Dagger. Found on the corpse of an enemy from the realm of chaos. It does 1d6 damage, then heals 1d6 damage.
A hand-fan of clipped, black-dyed harpy feathers bound with copper wiring. (9gp)
An archer’s bracer of leather and electrum. (25sp)
A hooded cloak with a dozen inside pockets.
A quart of honey.
Inhalation herbs & essences
An 8’ Golden horn
A delicate silver chain set with a tourmaline (28gp)
Crossbow bolt of chaos – 1 random affect on hit
A brown and red flecked egg, about the size of a loaf of bread, that gives off a rancid scent. (Troglodyte egg, worth 50gp to an interested alchemist, wizard, or university)
100’ of rope
A copper tongue scraper
Knife of a god of undeath. It turned whoever owned it immediately undead.
Box of ‘Top Secret Battle Monkeys’
Block of ice with ancient holy symbol
A used, slightly rusted (but usable) double-bladed sword. (60gp)
One hundred and sixteen 3” white porcelain discs, each has a 1 ounce knob of electrum embedded in its center
D6 oily rags
A single, platinum skeleton-key on a platinum ring. The key is finely crafted, with a delicate design etched in elvish characters along the length and across the bow. (37gp)
A short quiver holding 3 sunrods (2gp each)
A leather bag containing a black silk shirt with eight silver buttons. (Bag: 1sp, shirt: 8gp)
Potion of purple ooze: Turns drinking player into an ooze for 1d8+1 days. You can make up stats for purple ooze creature.
A prismatic crystal which echoes back – in a deep, melodious voice – every word which is said around it two seconds after it has been said.
An elaborate, whalebone scrimshaw carving of intertwined orbs, each showing the legend of creation story of one of the seven civilized religions, roughly 10” in diameter. (45gp)
A large tome filled with over one hundred recipes for wild boar, goose, and venison; written by Kilan Wester, a former royal chef (retired). (95gp)
A lovely ivory-colored dress of silk with flowing sleeves. The dress has tiny pearls sewn at the neckline. (70gp)
A ceremonial short spear; ash wood with an iron point. Seven red and three blue dyed vulture feathers are attached to the head of the spear. The iron is fluted to whistle through the air, if thrown. (3gp)
A large crystal vase, silver trimmed, with a dozen dead roses and some stagnant water within. (14gp)
The neverburning torch. A jet black torch, with an inscription in gold upon its side: “Only in your hour of darkest need will I light.” All attempts – magical or otherwise – to light the torch will fail, but if the character carrying the torch ever finds himself upon the brink of death, the torch will flare to life.
A famous battle banner, long lost, smells badly
An unhafted axe head of exceptional craftsmanship. It’s faces are inlaid with a faience scene showing a crowd of human villagers throwing a Halfling down a well.
Troll-rubber boots for enhanced move silent
A pinewood totem pole of the northern barbarians, bearing six faces (from top to bottom): a hawk, a demon, an elk, a man, a fox, and a white dragon. The hawk has a silver feather on the left side of its face (8gp), the demon has a gold nose-ring (6gp), the elk has copper antlers (4gp), the man has electrum eyes (3gp each), the fox has a black onyx nose (15gp), and the dragon has ivory teeth (30 teeth worth 1gp each). The pole is fifteen feet tall and weighs 200 pounds. (57m, 97kg)
A set of dies and hammers for minting the kings coinage.
Pouch of mushrooms – Mario themed
A scabbard stained the dark color of rust. Any blade which is placed within the scabbard will emerge covered in a sheen of blood.
The silver hilt of a sword with a grip of black leather. The blade is missing, or never existed to begin with. One night per year, however, on the eve of the new year, the hilt is possessed of a ghostly blade – allowing it to perform its duties as a sword once more.
Screaming Arrows – intimidate/fear check
Potion of false bluff: drinker of the potion perceives that they are an amazing liar. They believe that every bluff, diplomacy, and intimidation check they make for the next 1d4 hours succeeds, whether it does or not.
A wicker basket with a pair of mink furs within. (20gp each)
A staff that could change into a hammer and give him extra strength while it was in that mode.
Witch’s Mad Sack of Bats – releases swarm of bats
A tiny toy soldier which marches ceaselessly back and forth – eternally vigilant and pissed off if anyone disturbs.
A silver ring shaped into the likeness of a bull’s head. (4gp)
A tiny diorama made of oak and silver, depicting a prophecy of the last days of the world in vivid detail.
In a worn and decaying wall of mud bricks, a single black brick – polished and perfectly preserved – stands out in stark contrast. If the brick is pried out and broken open, it will reveal a quicksilver core.
A dozen quality daggers in a rolled up rug
A ruby the size of a man’s fist which sparkles and gleams with the promise of untold wealth in the faintest of lights, but which crumbles to dust upon the lightest touch.
A mask carved to look like the face of a man, but which has been fitted for something wholly other.
A carved wooden mantle, meant to be mounted above a fireplace, crafted of ash-wood and stained a medium brown. The left side is carved in images of demons and flames, the right in images of angels and air. The top is carved into an idyllic forest theme and has a moon above the left corner and a sun above the right. This piece weighs just over a hundred pounds. (65gp)
Dead/dried up fey hanging from ceiling
Four half-pound bricks of compressed Black Lotus pollen
A two gallon stone ware jug containing hallucinogenic tree sap syrup (20 gp)
A cabinet containing 24 glass jars of various medicinal herbs
Litmus magic paper: This paper can be used as a standard action by rubbing it on an object. It either detects no magic and can be used again, or changed color and brightness to reflect the school(s) and strengths of magic on the object.
A bowl full of golden apples found in the midst of ruins which have long been left desolate and uninhabited. They are quite edible and unspoiled. If they are taken beyond the ruins, they will lose their golden sheen and appear – in all respects – as normal, red apples. So long as they remain within the ruins, however, they are golden, and will not age or rot.
Re-animation bomb
D3 vials of holy water
Concealed punching dagger-bracer (Assassin’s Creed style)
Cat-python
Apple of the God’s – gain random ability of 1 god aspect at risk of save vs death, then random forbidden fruit side effect; ability is 1 per day/50% chance success
Near-Empty-Ever-Full One Arrow Quiver – always only 1 arrow, will reappear after being shot.
Brazier of infinite imps – 1d4 imps spawn every 1d4 hours
A masquerade mask crafted of leather and peacock feathers. (12gp)
Dagger of Bleeding – DC save to avoid bleeding damage
A hard, roughly cut piece of basalt rock which bleeds when pressure is applies to it.
A foot-high bronze statuette of a pair of entwined nymphs, dancing. (8gp)
Jewel encrusted sarcophagus – mummy inside
Piece of Legendary weapon & map with possible locations for other pieces
Bad Coin: A coin that always comes up tails. Placing it anywhere tails side down causes it to flip itself over after 1 round. It takes 50 pounds of pressure to prevent this flip.
Within a wooden box carved with pastoral scenes lies a leather purse, and within the purse are a handful of seeds. If these seeds are planted, they will take root and grow into plants of unnatural shape, hue, and life unlike anything seen upon this world, and operating by utterly alien principles.
Utility belt of flasks
A peg leg inscribed with a pirate’s treasure map. The map is either false or its treasure has long since been plundered. If you wish to provide the PCs with a true map, then one may be found in the hollow compartment within the leg.
A scimitar with a gold and snakeskin hilt set with a citrine. (100gp)
Ritualistic tattooing kit
Scalpel capable of cutting any substance
A broken holy sword, inscribed with the name of a legendary Paladin.
Backpack of effortlessness
Reversible, finely crafted robes
Ricochet-sling – up to 4 targets (d4 for targets, attack roll each; first attack fail causes ricochet to end [unless a tie, in the case of a tie to AC the ricochet continues])
A 3’ square replica of a castle, in wood, complete with ramparts and miniature ballistae and toy soldiers. Scribbled in some spots are notes written in draconic that suggest a plan to assault the castle (“Kill guard here first”, “Murder holes overhead”, Fireball this area”, etc…).It weighs 120 pounds. (65gp)
Smugglers boots – great for hiding a concealed backup dagger or wand
Mechanical mice which run through the walls of an ancient keep. They have done so for longer than written record can attest. They seem to be a benign presence – lacking even the slightest pestilent qualities of their flesh-and-blood counterparts – and have become an accepted presence here. Who their creator was, how they are fueled, and what purpose they serve (if any) are mysteries which may never be solved.
A rapier in an ornate, electrum-trimmed steel scabbard worked in swirl-patterns. (Rapier: 20gp, Scabbard: 45gp)
A pound of goat jerky
A finely crafted figurine of a blue dragon, rampant, done in wood and painted. (6sp)
The Longsword of Balanced Sums. Functions exactly like a generic +2 Longsword... except when you crit miss. Then it heals the target for half its max hit points.
Four pairs of snow serpent fur felt stockings (20 gp)
Four bars of copper. (2gp each)
Silver pan/satyr pipes/flute
A reliquary containing the bones of an ancient holy man
A small wooden case holding four pairs of fairy wings. (4gp per pair to an alchemist, wizard, or university)
Ballistic Fist Hammer (Hammer with each side acting as ballistic fists from Fallout series)
A small cask of yellow clothiers’ dye. (8gp)
Amulets of inedibility. Anything wearing it cannot be seen as food.
A piglet
Gold dipped idol of several skulls
A large bale of rare furs
Lucky Coin: You must have this item with you for 24 hours for it to become attuned to you. Once attuned, you may choose the result any time it is flipped, regardless of who actually flips it. Possible commands include heads, tails, and edge.
A finely made silver chalice etched in arcane symbols (non-magical). (7gp)
A diamond of incredible beauty which slowly shifts its color from the purest white to canary to blue to black and back again.
The Living Lantern, it acts as a decent light source, but it hates wooden items and structures and tends to set them on fire. I haven't decided if it should take a liking to burning cloth. It has some very curious results, mostly involving villagers getting angry at their houses burning or support struts burning down resulting in some catastrophic collapse.
Half-full flask of nightmare ale – 1 sip = 1d4 hours fear check per hour; full measure = 1d4 hours horrifying hallucinations vs DC save for early retirement
A cracked mask of teak wood, colored in (chipped) blue and red paint depicting the face of a fairy (4sp)
Waterskin of lamb’s blood
A silver brooch depicting a mage’s tower. (This could be a pass for magical wards at the mage’s tower, at the DM’s discretion.) (12gp)
Receipt for delivery of slaves
A filthy bucket, bolted to the floor, ¾ full of urine, containing silver coins, rings and necklaces worth 820 gp
A tattered, and sadly unusable, scroll fragment, inscribed with a spell unknown to any living mage.
Pouch of healing potions
A 5’ diameter wheel of fine, aged cheese
A small, heart-shaped token carved out of rose-colored sandstone, holding the mad soul of a princess who was trapped there by a sorcerer many centuries ago. Her body remains in the hidden royal sepulchers of her homeland, perfectly preserved by ancient magic.
Underworld Currency – lead coins; purple rocks/crystals, fairy dust, dragon scales, dna globules (rocks/capsules with runic understanding of specific creatures), tally bones, soul traps/crystals
Ash of phoenix in necklace/choker – instant revive to wearer (takes 10 rounds/1 minute)
A set of five small silver statuettes (each about 2” tall) consisting of a cat, an owl, a falcon, a horse and a griffon. (5gp each)
A one-gallon cask of Demon’s Vale Wine; a fiery red wine known to be made from hot peppers. (10gp)
Gold plated idols – possession = death penalty
RPG javelin – 5x range, normal range 5x dmg, 2xs range = 4xs dmg, 3xs range = 3xs dmg, etc… - explodes & destroyed after use except at 5xs or 4xs range
A large copper shield, embossed with a (copper) dragon’s head. “Elvalynte” is inscribed on the interior in a flowing script. (34gp)
A large snow globe, with a study base of polished oak, depicting a small farmhouse in the midst of a forest clearing. Shaking the globe causes the snow to gently fall, and as it does miniature figures exit the house and begin performing chores about the farmyard. The figures return to the house as the last flake falls.
A small ball of white marble – roughly three inches across – which hovers in the air until it is touched or disturbed, at which point it falls to the floor and ceases to exhibit any supernatural properties.
Wind attacking melee weapon – 10’ wind attack with slice
\"Phoenix Egg\" from a peddler in the City of Brass. After consulting with a few scholars, he later found that (at least in my world lore) Phoenixes are born of primal energy and not hatched, and that he had in fact purchased a very large jar of Alchemist's Fire.
A string of 8 beaver pelts. (4sp each)
A long, narrow wooden box containing forty, ½ lb rolls of quality smoking leaf.
A detailed rose, with petals and thorns, constructed of silver and electrum. (40gp)
Spork of positive reinforcement - that says encouraging things like \"Everything's GREAT!\" and \"Your body temperature is squarely within normal human range!\"
A small, crystal vial of a clear, viscous liquid that smells strongly of honeysuckle. (Vial: 4gp, Perfume: 3gp)
A stone table in the midst of the wilderness which is, nevertheless, always filled with a fresh meal whenever travelers come across it.
Shrunken head with command word – 1 ray spell per hour
Self-guided grappling hook - +10 to range attack roll for aiming
Rocks stuffed with lava
Neverfull Waterskin (It's always half empty.)
A straw broom
A thin malachite bracelet with a silver clasp. (6gp)
A 35 lb keg of iron nails
An elegant puppet theater. Although its wood is brightly polished and the red of its satin curtains is bright and fresh, the hand-painted sign upon its front (reading “The Wondrous Show of Punch and Judy” in carnival lettering) is chipped and faded. If the curtains are opened (using a set of finely woven pulley ropes which lie inside the theater), the puppets – stored in a concealed compartment “backstage” – will come to life and perform elaborate shows of their own volition.
Pie bombs
Smart 50’ rope – obeys simple commands, animated like snake
A high quality sharpening stone
Potion 3: Phoenix Restorative. The next time the drinker is reduced to 0 hit points, they deal area fire damage, and return to full health, only happens once. The player has no special knowledge this is true, but the flavor of the draught burns their throat but leaves them feeling oddly optimistic. Fire damage dealt should be based on circumstance, but if you can get away with lots, it'd be the most fun.
A pickle
A life-sized copper and silver statuette of a cockatrice. (17gp)
Helm – cherubic infant embellishment, emits confusion spell at will
Knife vest – holds 1d12 knives!
½ of jerked meat
A blood-soaked book; a partially written history about a long-lost keep on the borderlands. The last written page is done in a different hand, and is scrawled with “The rules have changed!” in large, bold letters. Roughly a third of the book (of 100 pages) has been used. (5gp)
Giant spider silk rope – sticks to most surfaces (including oiled gloves)
A set of wooden wind chimes which plays a different tune depending upon the direction of the wind which disturbs it.
A life sized copper statue of a fat cat with amber eyes. Purrs if stroked, does not detect as magic.
A bestiary!
A bright red hooded cape sized for a child, spattered with dried blood. (1gp)
The skeletal remains of a long-dead warrior, wearing a suit of plate armor which still glistens as if it had been polished yesterday. The name of every warrior to ever don the armor has been inscribed upon the front and back of the chest plate, covering nearly every inch of its surface with precisely written, black runes. A carful inspection of the armor will reveal that there remains room for one last name.
A large, boxed chess set. All the pieces are small, dead pixies somehow sealed within glass.
Bound Armor of the Demon/Fey/Lich/Whatever - Gives insane buffs, will eventually turn you into one of whatever it's namesake is.
An iron flask holding a viscous liquid of intense, emerald-green that smells faintly of citrus fruit. The liquid is a concentrated, magical dye for clothing and the like, equal to four full barrels of normal dye. If consumed, it turns the drinker green for a full month. (65gp)
Self-incinerating pellets – extra planar/dimensional transport/escape to pocket dimension with scrying/teleportation stone/orb
The remnants of a massive door of stone which has been smashed into rubble. A magic mouth which had once adorned the door remains intact. As the PCs draw near it will issue its warning: “Disturb not this chamber, lest the world suffer.” Whatever the mouth was set to guard is gone – the chamber beyond the broken door is empty.
A 6’ stack of 1” x 8” x 12’ planks of rare, scented jewel wood
A large, wrought-iron sign crafted to read: “Beware of Wyvern” in a bold script. The sign weighs 80 pounds. (70gp)
Uncut jewel – size of a dwarf’s fist or other incredible size
A tablet of pure gold, inscribed with the core rites and beliefs of a vernerable religion. Carful study of this tablet, however, will reveal subtle – but important – differences between these ancient practices and the current practices of the religion in question.
An oboe-like musical instrument made from a troll’s femur
A child’s cloth doll with a small silver brooch pinned to it in the shape of a butterfly. (Brooch: 4gp)
A 5 ft. tall bookstand in maple-wood, the front of which is carved into the likeness of three intertwined foxes. (6gp)
\"The Box of Do Want\" which made anyone looking into the box desire whatever it was that I put inside of it. A rock? The shopkeeper wants it so badly they're willing to pay their entire fortune. A spoon? The tavern keeper is willing to give you his daughter.
Wand Chamber – fashioned to look like a scroll case, it contains 1d12 slots to hold wands – think of it as a circular bandolier for your everyday wizard
A hollow glass sphere of surprising proportions – nearly three meters across. If it is broken those nearby will catch the barest scent of alien perfumes, hinting at strange lands belonging to the ancient time when the sphere was first forged and air trapped within it.
A crown of severed, mummified fingers. Each finger bears three jeweled rings (2200 gp)
A large sword with jewels that sequentially lit up after activation. After the last jewel was lit, the sword would explode!
A sword of truly mammoth proportions. Resting within a chamber more than thirty meters long, the sword stretches from one end to the other. Whatever creature was meant to wield this mighty weapon would truly stagger the imagination of a dragon.
Bone crushing mace – critical renders limb useless; two handed by any smaller than large
Rabbit-fur mittens and hat sized for a child. (1gp)
Eldritch flint & steel – 10’ reach – blinding/minor burns
Water damaged ledger – hidden location
A brass chamber pot in which has been hidden 3 pieces of rosy quartz. (Chamber pot: 3sp, rosy quartz: 4gp, 7gp, 12gp)
A sack of prized flower bulbs
D8 buds of garlic
The potions are a polymorphed group of famous heroes transformed into oozes. Anyone with the ability to communicate telepathically are able to speak with them (and probably help them get back to normal).
A pair of blue enameled steel spiked gauntlets. The palms of both gauntlets are designed to display the Cambersome family crest, a stylized ‘C’ shaped into the likeness of a coiled serpent. (90gp) 
Ancient gold cube – quite encumbering
Refillable curved poison dagger
A dirty canvas back containing twenty pounds of an aphrodisiac root (1000 gp)
Charm that tells 1 truth about a creature killed in the area
Fossilized skull of lich-arcane power source
Potpourri with demon blood – invigorating & entrancing
Headless helm – invisibility helm, “headless horseman style”
Animated pet rock – capable of killing people!
 Tactical defense stick…
A leather ball stuffed with chicken feathers and a plain electrum ring. (Ring: 35sp)
Silver hand sized harp
A grandfather’s broadsword, plain but quality. An unknown script runs along the inner side of the scabbard.
A ring of Luck, +1 on all saves
An ancient mummy which was given full burial rites and laid within a stately sarcophagus. Arranged on five pedestals around the sarcophagus are the canopic jars in which the mummy’s vital organs were placed. Although the mummy is not of the undead, opening these jars will reveal that its organs continue to function: The heart beats, the lungs fill with air and empty again, and so forth.
Armor of barbarian raging
Dinosaur bacon
Troll calling horn
A magic kazoo of intimidation
A large pile of coal. Two small, rough diamonds are hidden near the bottom. (20gp, 25gp)
Monster presence detecting weapon (Hobbit – Sting, Orcs/Goblins)
Key chain with multiple types of ‘skeleton keys’
Collection of documents with traces of royal bloodlines
A telescope of jade and banded with bloodstone. A character looking through the telescope sees not the world around them, but a strange, alien panorama which – nonetheless – follows the motions of the telescope.
A cow
A 'God-Helmet' that explained the universe when you put it on. It usually just fried your brain though, small chance of enlightenment or instant death.
The holy symbol of a god long thought dead and gone.
A large signet ring of gold, worked with a unicorn crest. Any commoner who dons the ring will suddenly discover its metal heated to unbearable levels – causing one hit point of damage per round. However, anyone with noble blood (however slight), or destined to become a noble at some point in the future, who does the same will suffer only a momentary flash of pain (with an accompanying 1 hp of damage). They will find that the unicorn crest has reshaped itself to their own heraldry, which has also been branded in miniature form upon the back of the finger. From this point forward, they can put on or remove the ring at will without any further ill effects.
Object of secret door detection/lay out visualization
Two six-fingered gloves, along with a matching seven-fingered glove. The set is made of supple black leather, and stitched with fine, silver thread.
A human skeleton in rotted priest’s robes wearing a ring and necklace. (Electrum ring: 4gp Silver necklace: 3gp)
Debt of a Soul – contract of soul ownership
A plain, unadorned black obelisk. If brought above ground and into the open, the obelisk will draw down a near-constant barrage of lightning to itself – even if the sky is clear.
A horn fashioned from the translucent bone of a storm giant. Those who put their ear to the horn hear it whisper the sounds of an unknown village square. Whether the village which they hear is – or was – a real place is a mystery which may never be solved. (Twin horn in village square allows communication between the two).
Whale ivory leg prosthetic
A finely crafted compass of gold and silver, decorated and labelled with ornate, dwarven and draconic runes. Once every 1d4 hours it randomly changes the cardinal direction to which its arrow points.
Blindfold – allows comprehension of ancient written languages
A quiver of golden arrows, They are devoid of supernatural properties, but despite their unusual composition will perform as normal arrows would.
A small, brown glass jar, sealed with wax, with a gray dust inside. A white label is affixed to the jar, and reads: “Zombie Dust” in a shaky script. (It is zombie dust. Value: 3gp)
A small bag of saffron. (22gp)
A five gallon cask of usk brandy.
Pulsating organ of leviathan (is sack/cloth)
Nigh-indestructible scroll case – leviathan ivory, jewel encrusted, demon paintings on side – scraps of scroll inside
Triple ‘barreled’ crossbow
Huge unbreakable leaf from Tree of Adamant
A gear-driven ships navigational calculator enclosed in a jewelwood box (5000 gp)
Semi-reliable Blindfold of Trap Awareness, sends shivers down the wearer’s spine when traps are near – or at random times.
A clairseach harp in the style of the northern barbarians, but crafted with an elegance which suggests the decadence of a great civilization. Its strings are almost too fine to be perceived with the naked eye, and when they are played they resonate with the force of a full orchestra.
With an elegant hinged case of black onyx, the characters find a set of masterwork gaming darts. Although useless for combat, the darts will give a +2 skill check bonus to anyone using them to play a game of darts (due to their superb balance and construction).
A scroll detailing the bound service of two men-at-arms sworn to six months of service.
Magic F**k You fireworks
The curse of the gauntlets was that no magic would ever help you, beneficial or baneful and anything you were in contact with would lose its magical properties while you're touching it. found out the contact one when visiting flying mages tower. I was no longer welcome there, but with certain classes the gloves are pretty sweet even considering the downside.
½ of raisins
A stuffed falcon, tattered with age, with black onyx eyes. (Onyx value: 5gp each)
A blood-stained dress which, despite being found in ruins which have lain undisturbed for centuries, is still a vibrant, stunning blue.
A token/key designed to deactivate all traps within the dungeon, requires activation at security box in secret depths of deepest part of dungeon
An owlbear costume.
A life-size basalt statue of a raven. (25gp)
Globe of Invulnerability (It's a snowglobe. Not even the gods themselves can destroy it.)
A charm of twisted black obsidian. Touching the charm unleashes strange, ghostly visions from a strange and alien world – utterly different in every particular, but eerily similar to our own world in its broad scope and form.
4 ceramic canopic jars, holding the stomach, intestines, lungs, and liver of a long-ago monarch. Each has a golden lid with a likeness of a paunchy, hook-nosed man with pale skin and a squint. (20gp each)
Satchel of gold painted lead coins
A life sized ivory carving of a chicken
Seven lengths of extremely thick, 30’ long, hemp rope, such as that used for catapults. (5gp each)
Unspeakable recipes
Extra dimensional flask – holds 1 gallon
A jar containing six eyeballs (2 human, 1 goblin, 1 ogre, 1 worg, and 1 hawk) in a clear liquid. (2gp for all)
A weatherworn wooden board, inscribed with patterns which make it clear that it was once used for a game whose rules have long since been lost to time.
Exploding rations – breathe weapon 1d6 hours for 1 use of color theme type
Electric weapon
A stoppered behir horn containing 300 gp worth of powdered electrum
A mithril-headed branding-iron bearing the sigil of the Manticora Trading House. (100gp)
A dozen chicken eggs; hollowed out and filled with white flour. (5cp each)
A Weather-worn jade statue depicting a desert beast known only to the people of the far south.
A statuette of a dragon, forged from the finest mithril, which responds to yes or no questions which are posed to it in draconic. The answers given may appear prophetic or oracular, but are actually random.
A copper necklace set with a small amulet shaped into a symbol representing the sun. (2gp)
Bag of angel feathers – aura of good; razor sharp; stronger than steel (can be used as weapon like dagger)
Headband/Headdress of enslavement
A large (36” diameter) bronze bell. (10gp)
Package of d6 sausages
\"Gloves of Slapping\" Gloves that improve a skill but randomly force the Player to slap an ally/NPC during conversations.
A silver-tipped quill with an elaborate white feather. (7sp)
Father’s old round shield, beneath the boss is the sigil of ______, valiant conduct by the bearer may draw the eye of the God.
A delicate brass dragon egg; hollowed out and painted into a seascape, resting on a wooden stand. (35gp)
A 3’ diameter sealed glass sphere containing water and a live ornamental fish
A large bronze wardrobe, banded in steel, which contains Violet Fungi (hp 15) and a human body with rotting noble’s clothing, a rusty dagger, and a thin platinum bracelet set with a moonstone. (75gp)
A very large scroll tube containing the plans for many of the ancient war engines of Armentarious
A 1 quart jar of rare purple snail dye
A small colored-glass window depicting the crowning of the first king. (10gp)
A scroll that when signed with blood would enter the participant into an assassin ranking system. Upon the scroll was also an arrow that always pointed to the assassin that was a rank above you. The goal is to reach rank 1 for a single wish however the only way to gain a rank is to kill the assassin above you. The Rank is infamous and well paid for their trade so strong assassins are always waiting for a rank opening.
A large, ornate field tent such as a lord would have, room for 12 persons
Scroll of Cursed Gibberish – DC save of can only speak gibberish
Torches infused with fragrance
Rope-fruit
A pair of steel flasks, sealed with wax bearing the symbol of St. Cuthbert. (Holy water, 25gp each)
A six foot long smoking pipe made of ivory, possibly a narwal horn, carved to look like a twisting serpent.
2 oz bottle of mineral oil
An ornately carved quarterstaff of teakwood. The end is carved into the likeness of a dragon’s head, with (painted red) flame issuing from its mouth and the butt end carved into an entwining serpent-like tail. (5gp)
A leather string holding 11 silver shuriken. (2gp each)
A wooden leg, carved to appear as a standing leopard with green agate eyes. (Agates: 4gp each; the whole leg, with eyes: 10gp)
A tower shield of bronze, cast into the likeness of a chimera’s heads and enameled to provide the appropriate colors. (85gp)
Dragon balm – reduced heat damage
An ancient deck of cards with five suits – clovers, swords, clubs, hearts, and dragons.
A large tome bound in thick bison-hide that is a common-orcish language primer, as well as a primer on orcish culture. The author of the primer, Darius Woodherd, seems to have added a lot of information on orcish heraldry and politics, as well. Darius spent almost twenty years amongst the orcs of the north, and eventually married an orc before being killed a score of years ago in a rival tribe’s ambush. Access to this book allows a +2 circumstance check on speaking orcish, knowledge of orcish history and heraldry, and on diplomacy checks when dealing with orcs. (90gp)
A silver-headed heavy mace, the head of which is shaped into the likeness of a ram’s head. (90gp)
A finely made 10’ x 12’ wool floor rug. The center of the rug depicts a scene of siege warfare. A Halfling is being flung over a city wall by a trebuchet.
A battle pennant, triangular in shape, of a black dragon on red silk. The staff is a silver-tipped lance. (Pennant: 30gp, Lance: 25gp)
A lucky rabbit’s foot which hangs from a golden chain. Although separated from the rest of the rabbit, the foot magically lives on: It will respond to touch, bleed if injured, and so forth.
Rust-dust Bomb – metallic eating dust
Throwing Axe of Appendage Severing – critical = appendage severed
A cane of the purest white ivory, decorated with ruins unknown to modern scholars, and topped with a handle of polished amber. Trapped within the amber is a strange creature unlike any the PCs have ever seen before.
A bearer-order allowing the possessor to take ownership of a dozen slaves from Zoealage the flesh-monger
D3 springs of mistletoe
An ornate box containing corked vials of different diseases
Edible Greatsword (Works like a normal greatsword. Great tasting and low in calories! Regenerates 6 inches per day.)
Coiling Rope: This rope coils itself after 10 rounds of being uncoiled, regardless of what is happening to it. It will undue all knots and will wind itself up around one end (always the same end). This process always takes 1 round.
An ivory and copper smoking pipe with stale tobacco inside. (4gp)
A pouch filled with 13 silver sling bullets. Each bullet is engraved with the holy symbol of Pelor. (1sp each)
Hero Dolls: These start getting made after the party does something particularly heroic. Little cloth dolls that look like party members, when squeezed, the caster spouts illusionary flames, the cleric spouts prayers \"Praise Avandra!\", the fighter has kung-fu action where he swings his sword.
A small wooden shield bound in human skin bearing a (full-shield) tattoo that appears to be some sort of map. The skin is held in place with a rim of beaten copper. (7gp)
A complete barding for a war horse made of bullette horn plates
A dozen glow wasps in a round wire cage with handle. Equal to a torch light at night. Require food and water daily.
Seventy-three clay vials of oil (1 pint each). (1sp each)
Bone Stylus - Dagger (s) - Write the name of your antagonist in your flesh and he will leave you be. Causes one hit point of damage for every letter inscribed in the bearer's flesh. Lasts until the damage is healed.
Back to the Beginning Ring - Take off this ring and it transports you to where you first put it on and disappears.
Fire Blanket - Heavy rug unrolls to reveal a fire, roll it up and the fire disappears.
Bloody Burden - Each day this blade draws no blood it becomes heavier to bear.  
A plain quartz gem that cannot be lost or sold. It always returns to the cursed person's pocket or is in their hand when they wake up every day. Inside the gem lives a diminutive fiend disguised as a grump fey creature that claims you have destroyed his home or stolen something from him. He threatens the cursed person with ambiguous retribution then flips a coin telling the person to call it in the air. The coin always lands as the player calls it, and the fiend says \"hmm, you're safe for now.\"
The bard’s token - The wearer gains proficiency in vocal performance and they gain the knowledge of songs from our world. If they sing a song related to what they are doing (both in character and OOC), they get a bonus to it at the discretion of the DM. For example, if the Ranger sings \"Shot to the heart/And you're to blame/You gave love/A bad name,\" I would rule that he gets an auto-crit if he hits. The only catch is that the player can't use the same song twice between long rests. Feel free to modify it to your hearts content. I usually describe it as a hexagonal piece of wood hanging from a necklace with a music note carved out of it, faintly glowing with blue or golden magical energy.
Magic beans - Over 7000 effects.
The Never-spill Mug - Nothing inside of the mug will ever spill out. No matter how much jostling, turning, throwing, or tantrums ensue. Does not come equipped with a straw.
The Barber's Brooch - Every morning, the wearer gets a clean shave and a short haircut.
Beeping Boots - Any sound the wearer's body makes that might annoy, offend or sicken another creature, like swearing, farting, belching, etc. gets instead turned into a single beep sound. Great for when you need to shush the vulgar party member around kids.
Offensive Bracelets - These outstanding ornaments of onslaught feel light and sturdy. When wearing them, one can feel an energy around their hands, as though there was something just out of reach. If one grasps, the feel of solid, polished wood stimulates the tips of your fingers. A strong grip, a taut string; a bow. Pulling the bow string back, you can almost feel an arrow coalesce in your fingers. It's aim will be true. Upon release of the arrow, the radius bone of the user's straight arm shatters, and a long thin shard fires through their arm, splitting through their wrist and knuckles toward the target with deadly force, causing a great deal of (nonlethal) pain to the user.
44Arrow of  transfer - When something is hit with this arrow, archer and target swap places.
44 Claws of the phoenix - Aspergillum with a large phoenix imprinted on the back. When the user is about to die he can make a \"phoenix punch\" as a full round action. The punch is always a hit and does strength modifier d4 force damage and wisdom modifier d2 fire damage. The user then  is caught flat footed and has a minus 2 on all saves in till his next turn.
Dollos vortex shield - a shield which diverts all missiles within 50 feet towards the user at 5 feet closer for every 5 feet traveled until the missile either gets in front of the user or passes the user.
A key that explodes when put into a lock.
A compass that, once per week,  all living creatures due north within a 50 foot radius.
A pill that, when swallowed, permanently makes the user see everything in photo negative.
A cubic foot of human blood that, when melted, reveals a chalice which is will instantly freeze any blood put into it.
Thief's Tankard - A stout metal tankard usually found hanging from a traveler's pack, it looks like it has survived at least a few generations of bar fights and abuse. Place this tankard upon a table or flat surface and it will fill itself with the most valuable wine, ale, beer or other drink it can find within 3 miles. Any amount the owner drinks is removed from the barrel/cup/container where the liquid originally resided
Fafhrd's Cruel Bolt - This solid steel crossbow bolt is covered in razor-sharp barbs, made to look and act like fletching. This bolt, because it has no safe surfaces to handle it from, must be treated as if it were poisoned - there is a 5% chance the user slashes themselves with the bolt. As Fafhrd loads the bolt into his crossbow, he casts Heat Metal on it - and the razored fletching means that when it strikes a target, it cannot be removed without a DC 15 Heal check. An enemy who takes damage from the Heat Metal spell must make a Will save to avoid panicking and flailing madly at the bolt - if their hands are unprotected they take 1d6 slashing damage and temporarily lose half that damage in Dexterity.
Stargazer's Potion
This potion was originally used by astrologers in my campaign, but it quickly found favor among night watchmen for obvious reasons. Upon a player drinking the potion, their eyes dilate until almost their entire eye is black pupil. They become extremely sensitive to light, and anything brighter than a candle causes them to be painfully blinded. Unless they are in absolute blackness, the player can see. The focal range of their eyes locks to infinity, and their vision becomes telescopic. They gain +20 to vision-based Perception checks at distances greater than 100 yards, but this modifier becomes -20 at any distance closer. When modifying the DC of a Perception check for distance, this character's range increment is treated as 40 feet instead of 10 feet.
Vial of dragon bile - grants the user a random elemental breath weapon when imbibed
Telepathic dice - when rolling, the user can think of a number and the dice will land on it (X charges)
A cloak clasp shaped like a turtle shell - grants resistance to the next physical attack (reaction). After X uses the clasp shatters.
A deck of playing cards - when a phrase is whispered into a card, the card disguises you according to the number (example 1-10 = commoner, J-A = nobility) . Card consumed on use.
Bag of acorns - planting an acorn in soil will allow it to instantly grow into a tree of a random height. Concentrating for one minute while it grows will allow the user to shape the tree.
Paint brush - this brush allows the user to paint anything into reality in a 1x1 square. X uses
Bag of teeth (some rotten) - when a tooth is thrown, a skeleton (or zombie with rotten tooth) appears at target location to fight for the caster. Tooth is consumed on use. (Alternatively, a rotten tooth summons a hostile undead)
Vial of vampire blood - when used as perfume, the user is granted advantage of charisma checks.
White marble/obsidian knight chess piece - summons a knight/death knight
Hourglass - stops time until the sand is spent. Once spent, the sand disappears. X seconds/minutes of use
Key made from an unknown skeleton - opens any non magically sealed door. X% chance to break on use
Worn blacksmith hammer - repairs anything it strikes. X% chance to break on use
Fo zhu necklace (monk prayer beads) - allows the user advantage on save rolls vs crowd control effects such as forced movement, charms, etc. A bead crumbles for each effect negated. (Alternatively - when plucked from the necklace, the bead turns into a Shuriken/monk weapon for X minutes. The bead then crumbles)
A coin pouch - gauges the wealth of target person in range. Opening the pouch to reveal a copper, silver, gold, or platinum coin to represent the target's wealth. X uses
A white holy symbol - while the user is concentrating, it slowly turns black when a lie is spoken in front of the wearer. Once completely black, becomes non magical.
Book of souls - when a person dies the user concentrates and captures that persons soul. The name becomes etched in a page along with their life story. If the user concentrates they can assume the identity of any soul within the book for X hours/days. The page then disintegrates and the soul is released. X pages per book
Frayed broom - the broom will clean any area the user commands it to. Works until most of the straw falls out.
Wooden dustpan - anything nonliving placed within the dustpan will be sucked into another dimension. X uses before the dimension becomes full
Swollen metal key - Locks any non magical door by expanding it and making it slightly larger than the frame. Each use makes it slightly larger. X uses before it becomes too large to fit keyholes.
Demonic ring - a powerful demon is trapped within the ring. it's aware of its surroundings but can only communicate with the wearer/party. Will try to strike a bargain to be released. The demon will do its best to make sure the deal isn't what it seems and is in its favor.
Hand mirror - concentrating while reflecting this mirror at an object/person will store it in the mirror. Can activate a reflection by concentrating, creating an illusion controlled by the user. Illusion last X minutes. Mirror can store X reflection once all reflections are used the mirror cracks
Music box - playing this music box will cast sleep on anyone within range to hear it. Has X uses/can only be used on someone once.
Rabbits foot - grants advantage on the next dice roll. Can be used after the roll but before any effects take place. X uses
A set of coins (copper/silver/gold/ platinum) - when this coin is flipped in the air and caught it has a 50% chance to produce a new coin of the same value. The other 50% renders the coin nonmagical
Jewelry box - this jewelry box will repair any jewelry placed within and restore it to pristine condition. For each item restored the box becomes more tattered eventually losing its magical properties. X uses
A wooden ear - when placed on a closed door the ear magically seals the room. For the next X minutes any sound from the inside of the room can't be heard. X uses
A wind up mechanical rooster -This rooster acts as an alarm to wake you up against intruders within X feet of it. It can also serve as an alarm to wake you up after X amount of time. X hours of use before it falls apart
A circular pill perforated down the center- taken before you sleep (cut in half. One half taken orally the other rectal). switches the user's brain with their fat. Advantage on saving throws vs psychic attacks. If taken while awake, the user takes 2dX damage. Last X hours
A thin cloak that shimmers - when targeted by a spell attack the clock shimmers and expands to protect the wearer granting resistance to the next magical attack (reaction ). Each spell blocked by the cloak reduces the shimmering until it becomes a normal/tattered cloak. X uses
An ornate compass that constantly spins - the user speaks the name and concentrates on what their looking for. The compass stops spinning and points to what the user is looking for. X uses
A pair of oars with metal handles. The handles have runes engraved in them - the oars paddle on their own, tiring after awhile, the same way a person might. Once exhausted the oars need to recharge, losing some of their magic. Paddle for X hours, X uses
A fan - When used normally this fan produces no wind but stores it instead. As an (action?) You can activate all the stored wind to create a dust devil/giant gust of wind. X% chance to rip the fan when activating.
Telepathic map - the parchment is blank. When the user concentrates the parchment fills up creating landmarks and features from your memory. Once the map is complete the parchment becomes non magical.
A plate with intricate gold etchings around the edges - brings out the full flavor of food placed on it. Anything placed upon the plate that would normally taste bad is delicious instead. The magic inlaid in the gold fades to silver when changing bad tastes to good.
A simple walking stick - whispering a command word allows the user to shape the walking stick for X minutes (examples: short bow/long bow, club, etc.). Each change causes a small crack in the staff until it breaks (Alternatively changes colors as it loses its magic).
Paper crane - transforms into a crane that collects fish for the user. Consumed on use.
A thick gold ring - this ring is considerably thicker than most. Allows the user advantage on strength checks and strength attack roll. Each use shrinks the ring until it breaks. X uses
An expertly crafted elegant table - the table magically summons any food the user can think of. Silver etchings carved into the table store the magic needed. The silver slowly dissipates as the magic is consumed
A metal circlet with several colored jewels placed within it - while wearing this circlet the user can concentrate to see people's mood. The targets skin color changes to reflect the mood they are in.
A picture frame - this large picture frame allows any painting placed inside to be an entryway to the painting. If the painting is damaged in any way there is an X% chance to break the frame
Red scarf - while the user wears this scarf they can concentrate to activate a flame that doesn't burn but keeps the user warm. When the flame dies out, the scarf loses its magical property. (Alternatively, the user gain resistance to cold) X hours of use
A fancy monocle - when worn the user develops a sophisticated accent of a nobleman. Also, the user gains a full flowing beard or an elegant beauty mark. If the beard is trimmed or the beauty mark covered up, the monocle loses its magical property
Vial of holy water - imbibing grants resistance to necrotic damage. Consumed on use
Thin grey sheet - when a command word is whispered the sheet conforms to a thick Xft by Xft stone wall. Any damage done to the wall carries over to the sheet, becoming tattered to uselessness
Ornate miners pick - the user can instantly mine through 5 ft of natural rock/stone/soil. Each time the pick strikes, a chunk of metal is taken from the pick
Conch shell - the user can increase the volume of their voice by speaking into the conch shell. Ideal for large crowds. X% chance for the conch shell to break from the reverberations
Feather necklace - allows the user to fly for X minutes, a feather is consumed for each use. (Alternatively, each feather grants feather fall)
Mermaid scale - cracking the scale releases the magic within granting the user gills for X minutes/hours
Divination bowl - a silvery liquid swirls within the bowl. The user can spy into a point in time for X minutes. The liquid used to show the vision is slowly consumed on each use.
Extending Scythe – At the shortest length, the extending scythe resembles a hand an half kama weapon. It does 1d8 + STR for 1 handed and for 2 handed it does 1d8 + 5 STR. The weapon can be extended into a 2 handed scythe which does 1d10 + STR. The weapon can also deal 1d4 blunt damage if hitting with the other end as part of a 2 strike action. (Related Ability: Double Strike – Once an encounter, the weapon can be used to execute a slashing attack dealing the damage depending on style hands used and extension level). This weapon is considered an exotic weapon.
Toxin of Intense Thirst – (Very rare, Potion) This potion is considered a rare and deadly poison found from the Nerium oleander plant mixed with large amounts of salt cooking gently over a rolling boil. This venom fits its name in the effects it provides. However, many times, “intense” is not enough to describe the effects the poison has on people. The Toxin of Intense Thirst can dehydrate the body so quickly the person dies of thirst within a few hours. Many times, autopsies cannot distinguish blindly whether a person has died from this poison or from weeks spent in a desert. What makes the poison particularly deadly is that it has no taste. It can be used to salt foods just as normal salt would be and is perfectly odorless. This poison is incredibly expensive because of the difficulty of obtaining the Nerium oleander plant due to its toxicity. It is valued at over 500,000 gold pieces. 
Draught of Wishful Thinking – (Uncommon, Potion). This draught was created in Estafer, a small town near the southern coast of Venisia during the Bloodscrall. Originally, the draught was created as a potion believed to allow for future sight. However, the idea of future sight was quickly eliminated and it became clear that the potion only showed the drinker what they wanted to see/hear/and taste. Its effect became quickly addictive and many people quit working just to enjoy the effects. The trade of it sped up immensely as people realized the effects that it provided. Unfortunately, many people began using the drug and because they used it to a point that they were constantly high rather than eating or drinking, they quickly began dying. In response, the King was quickly to outlaw the drug. However trade of the drug continues even today in Venisia. It can be obtained for 65 gold pieces.
Ring of Warmth – (Rare, Ring). This simple ring provides the feeling to the wearer as if the wearer is sitting in front of a fireplace. These rings were forged in the northern realms for the people who worked in the sheer cold. This allowed people to work in the cold without becoming effected by the ridiculously chilly weather. For adventurers, the PCs, the ring can prevent the effects of cold. However, the ring can only resist the effects of the cold for 7 hours at a time and must be recharged by placing in the presence of a real fireplace. The ring is valued at 100 gold pieces.
Gambling coin – ( Extremely Rare, Artifact). This artifact allows the user to flip a coin that allows the user to take a gamble to change their luck. PCs may flip the coin to make one attempt a success. Upon a heads, a failure no matter how bad will instantly change into a critical success. But, if the coin lands on tails, the next two attempts the user might make will instantly become complete fumbles. (For elaboration purposes, the coin allows any PC to instantly respond as if the roll they made was a nat 20 if heads. If tails, the next 2 rolls a player makes will be nat ) The gambling coin is a one of a kind artifact. It is valued at 1,000,000 gold pieces.
Amulet of Sustenance – (Rare, Artifact). This amulet has a very simple effect. It provides the user the ability to remain up to 1 week without food of any kind without any effects such as those of hunger. The Amulet is valued at 472 gold pieces.
Bar Fight Balm – (Common, Ointment). This ointment is a special medical crème provided by the Magic Medicine company which has been enchanted to specifically treat injuries obtained from Bar Fights. Specifically, it fixes the bruises or other injuries obtained while the body is deeply affected by alcohol. However, common side effects of this item are advanced hangovers. This balm is available for 3 gold pieces
Rex’s Flower Pot – (Common, Artifact). This vase produces bouquets from simple ones meant for a friend on a special occasion to the finest of flowers for the best of Emperors. This vase provides flowers exactly 4 times a day at no given intervals. It is common in most households of the upper middle class and the rich. Rex’s Flower Pot is available at most upper class stores for 450 gold pieces.
Thieves’ Garb – (Rare, Armor). This armor provides the wearer with certain key abilities. It is the primary cloth of the Neldorathrean Thieves guild. This armor allows the wearer to blend into shadows easily and slip into the most odd nooks and crannies. The Thieves’ Garb curves sunlight around it and allows the thief to blend into daylight as well. However, the weakness of this armor is that it is easily detected by the Amulet of Saint Cuthberth, which most watchmen of the cities carry as a response to the Neldorathrean Thieves guild. This armor is only obtainable from the leader of the Neldorathrean Thieves Guild and comes with a mechanic that destroys the armor upon the wearer’s death.
Amulet of Saint Cuthberth – (Uncommon, Artifact). This amulet provides protection against deceit and illusion. It allows the holder/wearer to detect those who are invisible or unseen. It is the primary tool used by watchmen to detect and catch thieves. The amulet is easily obtained from most Temples of Saint Cuthberth, the god of Truth for 50 gp. 
A bracelet with a diamond in it - the bracelet grants resistance to the next magical attack absorbing the resisted damage and changing the the diamond to a gemstone depending on what was absorbed.(fire = ruby, poison =emerald, etc.) A bracelet can have more than 1 diamond.
A weathered arrow - fired from a bow this arrow always lands pointing north. Alternatively, points to the nearest town/food. X uses before breaking
A pair of boots - while standing still and concentrating the user gains tremorsense. The magic degrades once the footwear becomes too worn to wear
Two identical Waterskins - the waterskins are linked to each other. Water flows freely between the two. Submerging one in water will fill the other as well
An eye patch - grants true sight for X minutes. X uses
A bag of marbles - each marble contains a weather condition. Breaking the marble causes the surrounding area to change for X minutes
A piece of ice that never melts - ingesting the ice grants the user fire resistance for X minutes
A golden letter X - placing the X on a map will reveal the location of any treasure on the map by hovering over it. After X gold is found with it, it stops working
A flower that never wilts - plucking a petal off the flower and handing it to someone will give a 50/50 chance of either advantage or disadvantage on any charisma rolls for X minutes. Additionally, the target has an X% chance to fall in love or be repulsed by you. Each petal consumed on use
A king chess piece - rubbing this chess piece grants the user advantage on wisdom rolls for X minutes/next roll. (Alternatively grants advantage rolls on intelligence). X uses
A set of two rings - while two separate individuals are wearing these rings, the users may rub the ring to switch places. Must have line of sight and both must be willing. X uses
A goldfish made of gold - this fish can be activated by whispering a command word. Once activated any unauthorized creature that touches it causes the fish to transform into a pufferfish taking XdX damage. (usually found in treasure chests). X uses.
A Lighting bolt - this lightning bolt was created with divine power. Only someone of good alignment can wield this. Deals XdX radiant damage when thrown at a target. Consumed on use
Two identical rings - when worn by two separate people the user can concentrate to take the appearance of the other individual. In addition, both users may concentrate to randomly gain partial features of each wearer, becoming identical twins. X uses
A well fitted metal bracer - while wearing this, the user can spend a bonus action to become X times heavier/lighter for X seconds/minutes. X% chance of breaking if the user becomes too big.
A small statue of a seagull - the user can use an (action/bonus action) to transform the statue into a seagull. This bird will fly towards the nearest body of water. Consumed on use
Earring - This earring grants the user advantage on the next perception check involving hearing. X uses
A ragged looking kite - This kite has a X% chance to cause a lightning storm. If the kite is struck by lightning (X% chance) it loses its magic
A multicolored potion - This potion allows the user to regain any spent spell slot. consumed on use
Ox stone figure - breaking this Ox figure allows the user to carry well over their maximum encumbrance for X minutes/hours.attaching overly large objects to the user doesn’t seem to hinder them. (Alternatively the breaking the stone figure allows the user to grow horns for a short duration and while in combat gains access to “Goring charge”
A smokeless pipe - This pipe emits no smoke, instead it stores it. you can use an (action/bonus action) to blow in it to create a thick smog caused by the stored smoke. If too much smoke is stored up, the pipe will jam, losing its magic
A fancy quill - This quill doesn’t need any ink and its writing can be read on any surface. Each use cause the quill to slowly grow smaller
A small pocket hourglass - This hourglass will allow the user to reroll their last roll at advantage. X uses before the sand runs out
A glass eye - Spinning this eye will allow the surrounding area to be free from any magical scrying
A stone slab roughly 3 times larger than a hand - This stone slab will inscribe any spoken language not understood by the user into one that is known on to the slab, eventually fading over a few seconds. If a language is inscribed more than X times, the stone will not be able to translate that language again. (note: 1 conversation counts as 1 inscription)
A white fist sized marble sphere - removes evil from an individual. Slowly turns black as it fills up. Once entirely black it becomes non magical. (Alternatively, once completely black, it creates a creature of pure evil)
Mug O' Dissatisfaction. A mug that always produces a steaming hot cup of coffee or tea when tapped on the bottom. It conjures the opposite of what the tapper prefers, so if you like tea you get coffee and vice versa. Handing the full mug to another person will make the drink in it transform to the opposite of that persons preferences.
Ace of Spades. An ace of spades from a standard card deck. No matter where you store it on your body, you will always be able to find it in your right sleeve afterwards.
Gloves of Tinkering. Wearing the gloves will make you able to almost repair any broken item. However, you will always end up with pieces from the item that doesn't seem to fit anywhere.
Greater Staff of Random Summoning. Summons a random creature at a random place. You could be summoning a giant Ogre on the other side of the globe for all you know.
Bag of Unholding. Quite a large backpack but even the smallest item doesn't fit.
Sword of Parrying. Parries every attack, swinging it yourself will force it to \"parry\" your opponents weapon/attack even though he/she/it is defenceless.
Enchanted Book of Collected Stories. Opening this will cause miniature creatures/people to pour out and preform a chapter from the book much like a theatre.
Dagger of Untold Secrets. A simple looking dagger. If used to backstab someone to death, it will whisper the most embarrassing secret of that person to you.
Dagger of Told Secrets. A simple-looking dagger. If used to backstab someone to death, it will whisper your most embarrassing secret to that person.
Sack of Hive Eggs. Crushing one of the numerous tiny eggs will cause the thoughts of everybody in the proximity to merge. Everybody can hear what you think and you can hear everybody.
Hoarder's Wand. Does nothing but for some reason you think it might be important later in your quest.
Bag of Trading. You can take one thing out of the bag for each object you put in the bag. However, you apparently have no control over what you get, and there are no trade-backs. Past research seems to imply there's some sort of logic to what gets you what, but it's extremely convoluted and far from understood. Supposedly a mad mage once understood it enough to consistently trade for enough food and water to live off of, but he was too crazy to explain. Oh, and don't trade it something you don't own.
The Mattress of Poverty. no matter how you fluff this gorgeous, thick, mattress, you will always sleep on the thin part of it.
Belt of Tightening. Every time you put this belt on, all of your clothes shrink a fraction of a millimetre. The effect compounds on itself.
Diadem of Brothaurity, When wearing this headpiece, you are as elegant and well-spoken as a famous diplomat or regent, but you can't stop calling everyone bro.
Wineskin of the Eternal Primary. This wineskin never runs out of water, but even the tiniest sip makes you have to go, like, super bad. Right now.
Bagpipe of Stealth. Grants the user invisibility as long as it is being played.
Anti-Matches. A box of matches. Striking one will make it begin to drip water from the tip while the match shrivels away. The amount of water a match releases is about enough to fill a tablespoon.
Ring of First Impression. Wearing the ring will make you able to perform a perfect handshake with the hand wearing it.
Belt of Unbathed Breath. When worn around the waist, allows the user to breathe underwater. Does not function when wet. 
Indestructible Notebook of Memories. This otherwise normal notepad of normal notepad size cannot be damaged or destroyed, and anything written in it cannot be obscured or defaced. It also has unlimited pages despite its finite size. However, the data it holds only lasts as long as the writer independently remembers it, and decays in exact proportion to the relevant memories. Remember who and when, but not where? Then the words describing the location in that particular entry are the only ones gone.
Hood Of Worrisome Facades. This hood will change your identity in the eyes of others, however the identity used will be random.
Hood of Offensive Facades. This hood will change your identity in the eyes of others to the appearance of the person they most personally dislike.
Lunchbox of Delicious Unfulfillment. This lunchbox will hold whatever food you desire. However you will never get full and the food will deliver no nourishment.
Decanter of Endless Sorrow. A pewter flask that produces limitless alcohol when held to their lips by someone who is troubled. It gets them drunk but they never feel any better.
Beam Sword of Severed Nerves. A beam sword. It cannot cut anything but nerve strings. Will pass through any other material leaving no harm.
Shoes of the restless traveller. Thoses shoes allow their user to run for miles without feeling fatigue, but if they try to do anything else with it (walk, sit down, jump), they will instantly trip
The Artist's Bludgeon. Inanimate objects hit with this bludgeon will receive no damage; they will however change colour.
Needle Of Learned Compromise. This needle will create beautiful tattoos of any design, however they hurt a tiny bit more. When used to sew it is entirely normal.
Bullying Gloves. At random intervals, these gloves instil the wearer with a near-irresistible urge to hit themselves.
Ball of Eyes. A snowglobe filled with miniature eyeballs. When shaken, it grants the user a blurry, jittery vision of some future event.
Intransigent Rod. When the button on this artifact is pressed in, the holder's opinions solidify and they become impossible to convince.
Focusing Ring. The digit on which this ring is worn can be viewed in extremely high definition from a great distance.
portable Dark Tavern Corner. Consisting of two wooden boards connected by a hinge, this artifact draws those nearby into assuming it is a perfect spot to conduct seedy business.
Fade to Black Belt. The wearer of this belt will be unable to remember any sexual encounter begun while they were wearing the belt.
Cymbal of Symbols. This musical instrument enables the user to comprehend dead languages, but only while they are deafened by noise.
Vorpal Grindstone. It can \"sharpen\" any object to become vorpal. Any object.
Compacting hammer. The force imparted by it is multiplied, but is spread around the surface of a struck object facing inward.
Murder Dagger. All damage it would deal is instead replaced by the target being harassed by crows for that many hours.
The Water Hat. A small red hat, when worn, causes water to pour from the wearer's fingers at the speed and pressure of a kitchen faucet at half power. The PC who kept it would always scream when he put it on because of how weird it was.
Sunglasses of Charisma. Found on an airship captain, I described them as something you'd see on Elton John. They're big, gaudy, gold and gem encrusted and probably heavy. They gave bonuses to Charisma and Diplomacy. The PC's, who up to this point were all good, immediately put the game on hold to plan a way to steal these and/or kill the owner in the attempt.
Box of Infinite Wolf Spiders. A small wood box, when opened, would spawn wolf spiders the size of your hand at a rate of 5 per second. They weren't hostile but they were spiders and did spider things. This also caused a lot of IC screaming when they opened it the first time and each subsequent opening. It was originally used against them in an attempt at sabotaging a tavern they were opening by a rival barkeep.
Key to the City - 1/day you can unlock anything.
Lunchbox - Each day it will refill with a nutritious lunch.
Armor of Invulnerability - Armor is invincible to any and every attack. The way it does this is by teleporting away from the attack without the wearer.
Watch of Warning - Aura of \"Alarm\"
Glasses of Translation - Can read any langauge
Cloak of Escapism - 1/day can go to ethereal realm
Ring of Time - Has one charge of Time stop
Ring of Pleasure - Causes you to orgasm until you die
Ring of Energy - -2 to int, +2 to str
The Oracle of Seasons This is a large ring (like a key ring) that doesn't do anything by itself. You can find magical rings to hook into it and gain their powers.
Power Ring - you deal and extra d4 damage
Armor Ring - Gives you +1 to AC (there are three of these)
Red Ring - Crit rage increased by 1 (there are two of these)
Blue Ring - Damage reduction 1 (there are three of these)
Green Ring - You deal 1 extra damage (there are three of these)
Cursed Ring - You deal half damage
Blast Ring - Ranged attacks deal 1d6 explosive damage
Rang Ring - Thrown weapons, including arrows, return
Steadfast Ring - Advantage against grapple
Toss Ring - No negatives for throwing weapons
Swimmer's Ring - Can swim your movement speed
Light Ring - Can cast light
Luck Ring - Advantage on Dex, Str and Con saves
Holy Ring - Resistance 5 to fire, ice and lightning
Dbl. Edge Ring - Swords do d10 extra damage, but you take 5 dmg
Whisp Ring - Immune to Poisons
Gasha Ring - Can grow vines from the ground
Zora Ring - Water breathing
Whimsical Ring - Deal half damage and prone to clumsiness
Protection Ring - Damange dealt to you is done to an ally
The Rings of the Bad Men
Slutty (lust) - Wearer of this ring casts an aura of eroticism. People within range must make a wisdom save (DC15) or be inexplicably attracted to the wearer. Can cast suggestion as a fith level spell at will. Your touch causes one of the following, all at a DC15; orgasm (con), paralyzied (con) or inflict wounds (as the spell).
Jelly (evny) - Advantage to persuasion checks, people within range act as if in a circle of truth. At will ability, social camoflauge allows wearer to attempt a charisma check (DC15) to be accepted among social circles. 1/day wearer of the jelly ring can acquire one object from someone under their control.
Lazy (sloth) - Immune to mind altering effects. At will, can cast Calm Emotion as a 5th level spell. No longer need to sleep. 1/day can scry on self perfectly.
Fatty (gluttony) - Wearer of the Fatty ring, lives like a fat cat in any town they go to. Food, drink and lodge is free. Can cast suggestion to cause people to eat, drink or indulge at will. Do not need to eat, drink or sleep. When food/drink is offered, must make a DC15 will save or will indulge.
Meany (wrath) - Advantage to indimidation checks, People within melee range gain disadvantage on anything targeted towards you. At will ability, target person must make a wisdom save (DC15) or become enraged. 1/day wearer of the Meany ring can go into a barbaric rage.
Grubby (greed) - Advantage to deception checks, people within range gain disadvantage to Charisma based skills used against you. At will ability, wearer can attempt persuasion check with advantage against target to aqruire an item. 1/day wearer of the grubby ring can trade anything for anything.
Douchey (pride) - Advantage to charisma checks and people within range of you gain advantage. At will ability, can cast charm person (DC 15). 1/day wearer of the Douchey ring can cast command as a fifth level spell.
Deku Mask - Speak with plants an animals as a cantrip, 1/day walk on water, 1/day can cast fly on self.
Goron Mask - Speak abyssal, +2 to str, damage resistance to fire and adding fire to any weapon you use, dealing an extra d6 damage.
Zora Mask - Speak celestial, breathe underwater, swim speed is doubled, gain fins on your arms (d6 dmg)
Fierce Mask - Swords deal an extra d8 of damage and bows deal and extra d10. If you spend a turn targeting an opponent, you can shot a beam from the mast dealing 2d10 holy damage.
Great Fairy's Mask - Speak with fey, it glows when there are fey nearby, fey treat you will kindness.
Bremen Mask - Allows you to speak to animals and gain a animal companion.
Kamaro's Mask - Gives you advantage and proficiency with all performance checks.
Blast Mask - Allows you to cast fireball 1/day.
Bunny Hood - Allows you to cast jump and longstrider.
Keaton Mask - Allows you to detect traps and secret doors.
Mask of Truth - Allows you to cast detect thoughts
Captain's Hat - Allows you to cast command and charm person. You can also summon a skeleton companion.
Stone Mask - This mask changes your face randomly. Gain advantage to stealth checks.
Gibdo Mask - Gives you advantage to intimidation checks.
Couple's Mask - Gives you advantage to Charisma saves and diplomacy checks.
Giant's Mask - Makes you large. +4 to str, -2 to ac (armor and weapons grow with you).
All Night Mask - Don't have to sleep.
Moonlight Greatsword - +2 greatsword with secondary attack of a line of enegery, dealing 2d10. It comes with 5 chargers. When charges run out, sword breaks.
The Dark Drift - +1 Katana. Blade is invisible so it is easily hideable. Ignores all non magical armor.
Smelter Demon's Greatsword - +2 greatsword, with secondary attack of a cone of fire, dealing 3d6 dmg.
Manslayer - +1 katana, blade is constantly coated in a deadly poison. Constitution save of DC15 or target takes 1d4 constituion drain.
Wicked Eye Greatshield - +1 tower sheild, when wielder deals damage, wielder absorbs d8 hp from target.
Drakewing Ultra Greatsword - +3 greatsword. Choose a target, sword shoots a burst of air at target, DC13 str or be blown back. Regardless, target takes 2d6.
Spitfire Spear - +1 spear, does and extra 2d6 damage.
Spiderfang Dagger - +1 dagger, secondary attack shoots a spiderweb, Dc15 str to escape.
White Ring - Make's a wearer appear as a ehtereal being as like a disguise.
Ring of Thorns - When wearer is attacked, roll d100, if between 000 and 035 it shoots out thorns in a 10ft radius, dealing 2d8 dmg.
Sun Ring - When wearer is attacked explosion eminates from target, dealing 1d10 damage to attacker.
The Hawk Ring - Bows double in range.
Ring of the Evil Eye - Every time a target is slain by the wearer, wearer gains d6 hit points. There are variations on the ring, noted as a +1-+5, each variation gives additional hit points equal to the +.
The Silver Serpent Ring - Every time you score a critical hit, the snake ring spits out ten silver pieces.
The Gold Serpent Ring - Every time you score a critical hit the snake ring spits out ten gold.
The Copper Serpent Ring - Same as above but spits out copper.
The Platinum Serpent Ring - Same as above but spits out platinum.
Southern Ritual Band Ring - Grants extra spell slot depending on the + of the ring (1-5). Normal ring gives an additional first level spell slot. Every plus afterward grants an additonal spell slot to the next level.
Ring of Life Protection - When character would be dead (-10 hp) they will be brought back to 5hp and the ring breaks.
Red Tearstone Ring - When hp drops below 10, +10 to dmg.
Blue Tearstone Ring - when hp drops below 10, +5 to ac, +5 to dmg resistance.
Ring of Blades - Slashing weapon you hold is treated as +1
Ring of Resistance - Gives you advantage against poison, petrification, immune to critical hits. Also grants advantage against cursed items.
Bracing Knuckle Ring - Equipment regnerates damage.
The Second Dragon Ring - Grants 5 additional hp, increases str and dex by 1. There are third and fourth dragon rings that double the effects.
Crown Chakra Concentrate on the top of your head. It deals with pure cosmic energy and is blocked by earthly attachments. Meditate on what attaches you to this world. Let your emotions flow and be forgotten. You must unlock this chakra to gain your energy from the universe. Spirits
Eye - You can see in all directions, advantage on perception, and into the ethereal plane
Hand - Once per day, when you would miss, you hit instead, and you can ignore one resistance
Death - Can cast True Resurrection on self once, Create Undead and Circle of Death 1/day
Angel - You stop aging and once per day you can reduce damage done to you to 0
Dragon - Speak draconic, locate dragons, can cast dominate monster (1/day, dragons too)
Psi - Read thoughts 3/day, Telekinesis 1/day, Scrying 1/day, Foresight 1/day,
Third Eye Chakra Concentrate slightly above the point between your eyebrows. It deals with insight, and is blocked by illusions. The biggest illusion of all is the illusion of separation. Things we think are separate are actually one and the same. Like the nations of the world: we are all one people but live as if divided.
Eye - You constantly have true sight
Hand - Anti-magic cone (one target, con save)
Death - Fear Ray (wis save)
Angel - Darkvision (no limit) + detect alignment
Dragon - Blindsight 60ft
Psi - Telepathy 120ft
Sound Chakra (Throat) Concentrate on the base of your throat. It deals with truth and is blocked by lies. The lies we tell ourselves. You must not lie about your own nature. Accept who you are.
Eye - Petrifying Gaze – One target, Con save,
Hand - You gain an additional attack
Death - Hellfire Orb (120ft range, 20ft radius, dex save, 4d8)
Angel - Weapons gain radiant property (2d8)
Dragon - Breath Weapon (choose element, 30ft line or 15ft cone, 5d8)
Psi - Psychic Blast (60ft cone, Int save, 4d8)
Air (Heart) Concentrate on your spine, level with your heart. It deals with love and is blocked by grief. Lay all of your grief out in front of you. If you have lost someone close, you must realize love is a form of energy and it swirls all around us. The love is still in your heart, and can be reborn in the shape of new love.
Eye - Wisdom becomes an 18
Hand - Strength becomes an 18
Death - Constitution becomes an 18
Angel - Dexterity becomes an 18
Dragon - Charisma becomes an 18
Psi - Intelligence becomes an 18
Fire Chakra (Navel) Concentrate on your spine, just above your navel. It deals with willpower, and is blocked by shame. Recognize the biggest disappointments in yourself, and what you are ashamed of. Accept that these things happened.
Eye - Allows you to cast invisibility 1/day
Hand - Gives you proficiency with all armor/weapons
Death - Advantage to all magic saving throws
Angel - Resistance to martial damage
Dragon - Immunity to one element (fire, cold, lightning, acid, poison)
Psi - Allows you to cast Mage Armor 3/day
Water Chakra (Tail Bone) Concentrate on your lower spine. It deals with pleasure and is blocked by guilt. Look at the guilt from your past that burdens you. Let them go, or they will poison your energy. Meditate and realize that these things happen for a purpose.
Eye - Allows you to cast Arcane Eye 1/day
Hand - Allows you to cast counter spell 1/day
Death - Allows you to cast Phantasmal Killer 1/day
Angel - Allows you to cast Magic Circle 1/day
Dragon - Allows you to cast fly 1/day
Psi - Allows you to cast polymorph 1/day
Earth Chakra (Sacral) Concentrate on the tip of your spine. It deals with survival and is blocked by fear. Let your greatest fears become clear to you. You may be concerned for your survival, but you must let those fears go.
Eye - Immune to petrification
Hand - Cannot be flanked/surprised
Death - Ignores a failed death save
Angel - Auto succeed a death save
Dragon - Immune to frightful presence of dragons
Psi - Immune to being charmed
Dark Souls Rings
White Ring - Make's a wearer appear as a ehtereal being as like a disguise.
Ring of Thorns - When wearer is attacked, roll d100, if between 000 and 035 it shoots out thorns in a 10ft radius, dealing 2d8 dmg.
Sun Ring - When wearer is attacked explosion eminates from target, dealing 1d10 damage to attacker.
The Hawk Ring - Bows double in range.
Ring of the Evil Eye - Every time a target is slain by the wearer, wearer gains d6 hit points. There are variations on the ring, noted as a +1-+5, each variation gives additional hit points equal to the +.
The Silver Serpent Ring - Every time you score a critical hit, the snake ring spits out ten silver pieces.
The Gold Serpent Ring - Every time you score a critical hit the snake ring spits out ten gold.
The Copper Serpent Ring - Same as above but spits out copper.
The Platinum Serpent Ring - Same as above but spits out platinum.
Southern Ritual Band Ring - Grants extra spell slot depending on the + of the ring (1-5). Normal ring gives an additional first level spell slot. Every plus afterward grants an additonal spell slot to the next level.
Ring of Life Protection - When character would be dead (-10 hp) they will be brought back to 5hp and the ring breaks.
Red Tearstone Ring - When hp drops below 10, +10 to dmg.
Blue Tearstone Ring - when hp drops below 10, +5 to ac, +5 to dmg resistance.
Ring of Blades - Slashing weapon you hold is treated as +1
Ring of Resistance - Gives you advantage against poison, petrification, immune to critical hits. Also grants advantage against cursed items.
Bracing Knuckle Ring - Equipment regnerates damage.
The Second Dragon Ring - Grants 5 additional hp, increases str and dex by 1. There are third and fourth dragon rings that double the effects.
Dark Souls Weapons
Moonlight Greatsword - +2 greatsword with secondary attack of a line of enegery, dealing 2d10. It comes with 5 chargers. When charges run out, sword breaks.
The Dark Drift - +1 Katana. Blade is invisible so it is easily hideable. Ignores all non magical armor.
Smelter Demon's Greatsword - +2 greatsword, with secondary attack of a cone of fire, dealing 3d6 dmg.
Manslayer - +1 katana, blade is constantly coated in a deadly poison. Constitution save of DC15 or target takes 1d4 constituion drain.
Wicked Eye Greatshield - +1 tower sheild, when wielder deals damage, wielder absorbs d8 hp from target.
Drakewing Ultra Greatsword - +3 greatsword. Choose a target, sword shoots a burst of air at target, DC13 str or be blown back. Regardless, target takes 2d6.
Spitfire Spear - +1 spear, does and extra 2d6 damage.
Spiderfang Dagger - +1 dagger, secondary attack shoots a spiderweb, Dc15 str to escape.
Majora's Masks
Deku Mask - Speak with plants an animals as a cantrip, 1/day walk on water, 1/day can cast fly on self.
Goron Mask - Speak abyssal, +2 to str, damage resistance to fire and adding fire to any weapon you use, dealing an extra d6 damage.
Zora Mask - Speak celestial, breathe underwater, swim speed is doubled, gain fins on your arms (d6 dmg)
Fierce Mask - Swords deal an extra d8 of damage and bows deal and extra d10. If you spend a turn targeting an opponent, you can shot a beam from the mast dealing 2d10 holy damage.
Great Fairy's Mask - Speak with fey, it glows when there are fey nearby, fey treat you will kindness.
Bremen Mask - Allows you to speak to animals and gain a animal companion.
Kamaro's Mask - Gives you advantage and proficiency with all performance checks.
Blast Mask - Allows you to cast fireball 1/day.
Bunny Hood - Allows you to cast jump and longstrider.
Keaton Mask - Allows you to detect traps and secret doors.
Mask of Truth - Allows you to cast detect thoughts
Captain's Hat - Allows you to cast command and charm person. You can also summon a skeleton companion.
Stone Mask - This mask changes your face randomly. Gain advantage to stealth checks.
Gibdo Mask - Gives you advantage to intimidation checks.
Couple's Mask - Gives you advantage to Charisma saves and diplomacy checks.
Giant's Mask - Makes you large. +4 to str, -2 to ac (armor and weapons grow with you).
All Night Mask - Don't have to sleep.
The Rings of the Bad Men
Slutty (lust) - Wearer of this ring casts an aura of eroticism. People within range must make a wisdom save (DC15) or be inexplicably attracted to the wearer. Can cast suggestion as a fith level spell at will. Your touch causes one of the following, all at a DC15; orgasm (con), paralyzied (con) or inflict wounds (as the spell).
Jelly (evny) - Advantage to persuasion checks, people within range act as if in a circle of truth. At will ability, social camoflauge allows wearer to attempt a charisma check (DC15) to be accepted among social circles. 1/day wearer of the jelly ring can acquire one object from someone under their control.
Lazy (sloth) - Immune to mind altering effects. At will, can cast Calm Emotion as a 5th level spell. No longer need to sleep. 1/day can scry on self perfectly.
Fatty (gluttony) - Wearer of the Fatty ring, lives like a fat cat in any town they go to. Food, drink and lodge is free. Can cast suggestion to cause people to eat, drink or indulge at will. Do not need to eat, drink or sleep. When food/drink is offered, must make a DC15 will save or will indulge.
Meany (wrath) - Advantage to indimidation checks, People within melee range gain disadvantage on anything targeted towards you. At will ability, target person must make a wisdom save (DC15) or become enraged. 1/day wearer of the Meany ring can go into a barbaric rage.
Grubby (greed) - Advantage to deception checks, people within range gain disadvantage to Charisma based skills used against you. At will ability, wearer can attempt persuasion check with advantage against target to aqruire an item. 1/day wearer of the grubby ring can trade anything for anything.
Douchey (pride) - Advantage to charisma checks and people within range of you gain advantage. At will ability, can cast charm person (DC 15). 1/day wearer of the Douchey ring can cast command as a fifth level spell.
The Ocarina of Time. Songs are learned by either being taught or just discovering them through 24 hours of playing. Songs can be created by spending 48 hours making a song and having someone continually cast the spell on the ocarina. If you somehow stay away and spend 48 straight hours making the song, they only have to cast it twice (once for each day).
Songs
Zelda's Lullaby - Sometimes cool things happen. This is very vague and is up to DM's discretion. Normal things it may do are open locks, summons animal companion, charm person, repair an item/object, or summon a fairie to give direction/advice.
Epona's Song - This song summons a steed to your side. It may also help persuade animals to help you.
Sun's Song - This song blocks or unblocks the sun, with clouds or other obstacles. It's a very mystical song.
Song of Storms - This song causes clouds to come in immediately and it starts raining. Next round, you can caust lightning bolt on a target.
The Oracle of Seasons. This is a large ring (like a key ring) that doesn't do anything by itself. You can find magical rings to hook into it and gain their powers.
Power Ring - you deal and extra d4 damage
Armor Ring - Gives you +1 to AC (there are three of these)
Red Ring - Crit rage increased by 1 (there are two of these)
Blue Ring - Damage reduction 1 (there are three of these)
Green Ring - You deal 1 extra damage (there are three of these)
Cursed Ring - You deal half damage
Blast Ring - Ranged attacks deal 1d6 explosive damage
Rang Ring - Thrown weapons, including arrows, return
Steadfast Ring - Advantage against grapple
Toss Ring - No negatives for throwing weapons
Heart Ring - Regenerate 1hp every round (there are two of these)
Swimmer's Ring - Can swim your movement speed
Light Ring - Can cast light
Luck Ring - Advantage on Dex, Str and Con saves
Holy Ring - Resistance 5 to fire, ice and lightning
Dbl. Edge Ring - Swords do d10 extra damage, but you take 5 dmg
Whisp Ring - Immune to Poisons
Gasha Ring - Can grow vines from the ground
Zora Ring - Water breathing
Whimsical Ring - Deal half damage and prone to clumsiness
Protection Ring - Damange dealt to you is done to an ally
The Wind Waker This is a lute that is usually held by a powerful captain. Like the Ocarina you can learn songs on it, but unlike the ocarina you cannot create songs for it.
Songs
Wind's Requiem - You can change the direction of the wind.
Ballad of Gales - On the open water, you can teleport to any port
Command Melody - You can cast command as a cantrip
Song of Passing - Calms storms
Four Sword. This is a weapon forged by the four elements and the elemntal sanctuary. This sword grants the weilder different abilities depending on what they sacrifice to charge it. Charging it requires infusing it with your own constitution.
0 - It's just a normal long sword
2 - You can make three temporary copies of yourself that last one round and can attack.
4 - You can make three copies of yourself that last for as long as you have the sword.
The Fisher King - A seed that contains a magical house. Once planted the seed will grow into a house to your exact specification (this location is the building's core and cannot be moved). The house is capable of defying the laws of physics in minor ways (floating staircases, rooms slightly bigger inside than out). Max volume cannot exceed the largest building currently exists.
Spend 1 constitution point to move the house up to 100 miles.
Once per day, house replinishes with desired food, drink and entertainment (these objects cannot leave the house).
Spend 1 constitituion point to create 5 golems from materials in the house. Can be any shape or size as long as it fits in the house and is visible. They have a lifespan of 1 year and their materials disintegrate.
House is invincible and owner of the house cannot die within it's walls. Others cannot enter the house withou an invitation.
For every day you are outside of the house you lose one point of constitution.
Key to the City - 1/day you can unlock anything.
Lunchbox - Each day it will refil with a nutritious lunch.
Armor of Invulnerability - Armor is invincible to any and every attack. The way it does this is by teleporting away from the attack without the wearer.
Watch of Warning - Aura of \"Alarm\"
Glasses of Translation - Can read any langauge
Cloak of Escapism - 1/day can go to ethereal realm
Ring of Time - Has one charge of Time stop
Ring of Pleasure - Causes you to orgasm until you die
Ring of Energy - -2 to int, +2 to str
Mug O' Dissatisfaction. A mug that always produces a steaming hot cup of coffee or tea when tapped on the bottom. It conjures the opposite of what the tapper prefers, so if you like tea you get coffee and vice versa. Handing the full mug to another person will make the drink in it transform to the opposite of that persons preferences.
Ace of Spades. An ace of spades from a standard card deck. No matter where you store it on your body, you will always be able to find it in your right sleeve afterwards.
Gloves of Tinkering. Wearing the gloves will make you able to almost repair any broken item. However, you will always end up with pieces from the item that doesn't seem to fit anywhere.
Greater Staff of Random Summoning. Summons a random creature at a random place. You could be summoning a giant Ogre on the other side of the globe for all you know.
Bag of Unholding. Quite a large backpack but even the smallest item doesn't fit.
Sword of Parrying. Parries every attack, swinging it yourself will force it to \"parry\" your opponents weapon/attack even though he/she/it is defenceless.
Enchanted Book of Collected Stories. Opening this will cause miniature creatures/people to pour out and preform a chapter from the book much like a theatre.
Dagger of Untold Secrets. A simple looking dagger. If used to backstab someone to death, it will whisper the most embarrassing secret of that person to you.
Dagger of Told Secrets. A simple-looking dagger. If used to backstab someone to death, it will whisper your most embarrassing secret to that person.
Sack of Hive Eggs. Crushing one of the numerous tiny eggs will cause the thoughts of everybody in the proximity to merge. Everybody can hear what you think and you can hear everybody.
Hoarder's Wand. Does nothing but for some reason you think it might be important later in your quest.
Bag of Trading. You can take one thing out of the bag for each object you put in the bag. However, you apparently have no control over what you get, and there are no trade-backs. Past research seems to imply there's some sort of logic to what gets you what, but it's extremely convoluted and far from understood. Supposedly a mad mage once understood it enough to consistently trade for enough food and water to live off of, but he was too crazy to explain. Oh, and don't trade it something you don't own.
The Mattress of Poverty. no matter how you fluff this gorgeous, thick, mattress, you will always sleep on the thin part of it.
Belt of Tightening. Every time you put this belt on, all of your clothes shrink a fraction of a millimetre. The effect compounds on itself.
Diadem of Brothaurity, When wearing this headpiece, you are as elegant and well-spoken as a famous diplomat or regent, but you can't stop calling everyone bro.
Wineskin of the Eternal Primary. This wineskin never runs out of water, but even the tiniest sip makes you have to go, like, super bad. Right now.
Bagpipe of Stealth. Grants the user invisibility as long as it is being played.
Anti-Matches. A box of matches. Striking one will make it begin to drip water from the tip while the match shrivels away. The amount of water a match releases is about enough to fill a tablespoon.
Ring of First Impression. Wearing the ring will make you able to perform a perfect handshake with the hand wearing it.
Belt of Unbathed Breath. When worn around the waist, allows the user to breathe underwater. Does not function when wet.
Indestructible Notebook of Memories. This otherwise normal notepad of normal notepad size cannot be damaged or destroyed, and anything written in it cannot be obscured or defaced. It also has unlimited pages despite its finite size. However, the data it holds only lasts as long as the writer independently remembers it, and decays in exact proportion to the relevant memories. Remember who and when, but not where? Then the words describing the location in that particular entry are the only ones gone.
Hood Of Worrisome Facades. This hood will change your identity in the eyes of others, however the identity used will be random.
Hood of Offensive Facades. This hood will change your identity in the eyes of others to the appearance of the person they most personally dislike.
Lunchbox of Delicious Unfulfillment. This lunchbox will hold whatever food you desire. However you will never get full and the food will deliver no nourishment.
Decanter of Endless Sorrow. A pewter flask that produces limitless alcohol when held to their lips by someone who is troubled. It gets them drunk but they never feel any better.
Beam Sword of Severed Nerves. A beam sword. It cannot cut anything but nerve strings. Will pass through any other material leaving no harm.
Shoes of the restless traveller. These shoes allow their user to run for miles without feeling fatigue, but if they try to do anything else with it (walk, sit down, jump), they will instantly trip
The Artist's Bludgeon. Inanimate objects hit with this bludgeon will receive no damage; they will however change colour.
Needle Of Learned Compromise. This needle will create beautiful tattoos of any design, however they hurt a tiny bit more. When used to sew it is entirely normal.
Bullying Gloves. At random intervals, these gloves instil the wearer with a near-irresistible urge to hit themselves.
Ball of Eyes. A snow globe filled with miniature eyeballs. When shaken, it grants the user a blurry, jittery vision of some future event.
Intransigent Rod. When the button on this artifact is pressed in, the holder's opinions solidify and they become impossible to convince.
Focusing Ring. The digit on which this ring is worn can be viewed in extremely high definition from a great distance.
Portable Dark Tavern Corner. Consisting of two wooden boards connected by a hinge, this artifact draws those nearby into assuming it is a perfect spot to conduct seedy business.
Fade to Black Belt. The wearer of this belt will be unable to remember any sexual encounter begun while they were wearing the belt.
Cymbal of Symbols. This musical instrument enables the user to comprehend dead languages, but only while they are deafened by noise.
Vorpal Grindstone. It can \"sharpen\" any object to become vorpal. Any object.
Compacting hammer. The force imparted by it is multiplied, but is spread around the surface of a struck object facing inward.
Murder Dagger. All damage it would deal is instead replaced by the target being harassed by crows for that many hours.
The Water Hat. A small red hat, when worn, causes water to pour from the wearer's fingers at the speed and pressure of a kitchen faucet at half power. The PC who kept it would always scream when he put it on because of how weird it was.
Sunglasses of Charisma. Found on an airship captain, I described them as something you'd see on Elton John. They're big, gaudy, gold and gem encrusted and probably heavy. They gave bonuses to Charisma and Diplomacy. The PC's, who up to this point were all good, immediately put the game on hold to plan a way to steal these and/or kill the owner in the attempt.
Box of Infinite Wolf Spiders. A small wood box, when opened, would spawn wolf spiders the size of your hand at a rate of 5 per second. They weren't hostile but they were spiders and did spider things. This also caused a lot of IC screaming when they opened it the first time and each subsequent opening. It was originally used against them in an attempt at sabotaging a tavern they were opening by a rival barkeep.
A single pubic hair from a nymph.
A string of firecrackers.
An ancient bronze coin (1/2 CP ). The tyrant on it looks exactly like you.
A deck of dirty playing cards. 
A link of chain from a Valkyrie's chain mail bikini.
A pinch of lich dust in a tiny batskin pouch.
A genie's veil. 
1d20 noxious drow cigarettes in a little tin coffin.
The holy book of a dead god.
An apple from a dryad's garden.
Gold from a dragon's horde, fused into a blob by his heat & weight (1d6 GP). 
Chunk of amber, 1\" tall prehistoric proto-faerie trapped inside.
Bookmark made from the skin of an infamous assassin. 
A hen's tooth.
A single scale from a mermaid's tail.
Flask of liquid: Vinegar by day, turns into goblin wine by night.
25mm lead figure of yourself. 
White crayon and 1d6 weird dice.
Piece of goblin chalk -markings last one week & can only be seen by those w/ darkvision.
Little plastic toy rust monster. 
Vial of unicorn's milk.
Feather from a pegasus.
A failed adventurer's suicide note. \"I should have died down there with the others...\"
Exquisite flute made from a human thigh bone.
Little plastic toy bullette.
Little plastic toy owlbear (With \"Moe\" haircut).
Piece of weird fruit from a sunless goblin orchard deep underground.
A miniature, tame mimic
A carved marble elephant
A small round cactus with two eyes
A pocket book of dwarven poetry
A bronze box containing a tiny wooden owl
A solid blue metal sphere, one inch in diameter, with three parallel grooves around the circumference
A pouch containing ten dried peas
A ceramic puzzle cube, with each face divided into four independently rotating squares enamelled with astronomical signs
A square of bear-beetle leather, a creature unique to the misty woods of Cix
A sheet of vellum on which is crudely painted a herbal plant that you have yet to identify
A petrified frog
A twenty-sided die
A cut yellow chrysanthemum that never dies
A palm-sized iron cage: the door doesn't shut properly, as the tiny lock was broken from the inside
A blob of grey goo, slippy but safe to touch, kept in a ceramic pot
A dried sky lily, from the tip of the Godshead, an impossibly high mountain.
A glowing blue-green line, six inches long, but with no discernable radius
A pretty conch shell
A scrap of paper on which is written, in Goblin, \"My dearest Bess,\"
A keychain holding the head of a broken key
An echo pearl from the depths of the Vibration Lake
A toy crossbow
Lip balm
A fossil of an extinct many-limbed critter
A brass prosthetic nose
A corkscrew
A dried poison gland of a jaggedfish
A bronze gear on which is etched the word \"Moon\"
A map of a labyrinth, on which is pencilled a line that starts at the centre but fails to connect to the entrance
A cube of ice that never melts
A square of ironsilk sewn by the geargrubs of ancient Siclari
An ivory knitting needle
A peacock feather
A travel set of paints: someone has used up all the black
A wig of short platinum-blonde hair
A child's charm bracelet
A small bar of orichalcum, a metal only mentioned in ancient literature
A deed to a ruined tower
An invitation to a formal ball to be held in two years time
A smoking pipe carved from granite
A vial of scented oil
A preserved basilisk eye
A torn page on which is written \"Death! / Plop. / The barges down in the river flop. / Flop, plop. / Above, beneath\"
An intricate knot that nobody seems to know how to tie or untie – sailors believe it to be bad luck
Pages ripped out of an accounting journal of a local merchant
A ring with a poison reservoir for slipping into drinks and a tiny razor edge for cutting purse-strings
A glass globe of swirling green goop, no openings
A bundle of ragged \"treasure maps\" drawn by inventive local children
A sliver from a spear said to have pierced the armpit of a saint
A portfolio of pressed flowers
A small handbook of foreign coins, for travelers to identify denominations
A alightly out of date guidebook to foreign inns, taverns, and transportation
Six useless wooden tokens previously issued by a traitor-prince as currency
Two false fingernails painted with mysterious symbols
A set of cosmetic tools for cleaning the ears
A harmless stage dagger with retracting blade and blood-compartment
A floating glass orb that follows you around and makes whirring sounds
A goblin-made key that can lock any door, but unlock none
A translucent coin, minted in an unknown land
A bronze ring engraved with dark symbols that was supposedly buried with a legendary necromancer long ago
A ring carved with the unfinished insignia to a defunct secret organization
A thimble on which is an enamel painting of a turtle
A puzzle box holding 10 fingernail clippings
A pair of badly worn hairdressing scissors
A wax hand shaped to hold a large cup
A measuring tape, marked in ink at 23 inches
A seashell that is silent when held up to your ear
A coprolite
One piece of unknown paper currency with no obvious denomination
A bootlace entwined with gold thread
A dented sherrif's badge
A tiny bubble level that is calibrated incorrectly
A belt buckle
A letter of complaint to a toy shop owner
A decorative leather stud
A penny whistle that plays the same note no matter which holes are covered
A ticket admitting an adult and child onto a thing called a \"semiotic tram\"
A small glass vial holding three eyelashes
A tub of putty
A leather shoe made for a dog
A doll head with no hair and poorly applied makeup
A pewter spork
Illustrated instructions on how to make a paper hat
A clear glass dish with four round notches around the outside edge
A wire circlet that bestows upon its wearer perfect posture
A small hand-sized box covered with numbered buttons
An empty whiskey tumbler that causes any liquid poured into it to become bourbon
A book of flumph grammar
A hunk of metal which appears to be several gears jammed together at unnatural and impossible angles: attempting to turn it causes it to emit a horrible shrieking sound
A crystal prism that refracts shadow instead of light
A smokeless and odorless candle
A flat disc of layered metal and prismatic glass with a hole in the centre
An ornate pewter tankard made without a bottom
A wooden device designed to be gripped in two hands; two levers protrude from the top, and two triggers from the underside
Two perfectly identical pine cones
A sponge that can absorb 60 gallons of ale (and only ale)
A pepper grinder containing an unlimited supply of pepper unless opened, at which point it becomes half empty
A poorly cultivated bonsai juniper in a glazed ceramic pot
An oval-shaped soapstone tablet inscribed with a short list of religious prohibitions
A wooden doll with a door that opens to reveal a slightly smaller, identical, doll; this one is empty, perhaps there are still smaller dolls that are missing?
A brightly-colored glove that walks around randomly for 1 minute on its own when placed on a hard,flat surface.
An opalescent square of silken fabric that ripples and sparkles when kissed.
A milky crystalline hemisphere that adheres powerfully to any exposed skin it touches for precisely 1hour.
A dull metallic cube that randomly changes the color of any skin it touches for 10 hours.
A featureless miniature humanoid that sits atop the hand when placed and decorates it with strangetraceries of ink.
A ring that makes the wearer’s finger nails take on multiple colors.
A disc that when flipped always lands on its edge.
A bead of glass or synth that glows faintly. but not enough to see or read by,
A sheet of white synth that always washes clean when submerged in water for an hour.
A cube of red metal that only ever stands on a corner.
A transparent blue object made of synth that, when placed into a liquid, will maintain thetemperature of the liquid for up to 1 day.
A hand glass that shows you what you look like from behind.
A metal teardrop that hums an ancient tune when bathed in starlight.
A fuzzy toy animal that seems to repel any dirt.
A hat that, when worn, makes the wearer look shorter or taller by up to 6 inches, apparently atrandom.
A yard (1m) long length of braided synth wire that rearranges itself into strange 3-dimensionalforms every hour.
A mask that displays a caricature of the wearer's face.
A tiny pot of shimmering synth that becomes pliable and rubbery at body temperature, returning to
original form and state upon cooling.
A strange set of cutlery shaped for alien hands.
A bizarre whistle that emits floating motes of color when blown.
A tube that changes the color of any liquid poured through it.
An orb of unknown material that orbits the head of the last person to touch it.
A ring of metal with strange symbols carved into that glow randomly.
A hat that changes the wearer's hair color when worn.
A pulsing seed pod that is always warm to the touch.
Screen that displays images of everyone you’ve ever met, in order, each time you pick it up.
Thick wristband that glows when Esoteries are used within 20 meters.
Bar of metal which constantly oozes a black, sticky, substance.
Small fur pouch with five pieces of tasty candy in it. Replenishes each evening.
Ceramic disk that speaks to you in a friendly voice whenever you’re in trouble. You have no way ofunderstanding the language, but it seems like it’s trying to help.
A transparent plate showing lines of symbols. Touching the edges of the plate in specific placesproduce more symbols.
A synth stylus which will draw lines on any surface. The lines remain until either the stylus goesfurther than short range from the writing, or until nightfall, whichever comes first.
An odd little brush which carefully cleans any surface it is applied to, leaving it smelling vaguely ofcamphor.
A 10 cm length of slippery cord. Its thickness responds to the amplitude of sound.
A disc of some sort of transparent material. Holding it up to your eye reveals a multitude of labelswhich it applies to everything you look at through the disc. Sadly, the language keeps shifting fromone set of symbols to the next, and never one which is known.
A miniature figurine that dances when you blow on it.
The canine of a long dead beast drops blood in the presence of predatory animals.
A seed pod that sprouts edible fruit when dipped in water.
Pocket watch that doesn't have hands yet can be used as a sundial when placed in sunlight.
A chipped glass bead that allows one to see great distances when looking through it.
A small metal table with tiny magnetized figures. The table can be made to vibrate, causing thefigures to move about randomly on the surface.
A square of black synth with several oddly shaped holes cut into it revealing a freely rotatingmetallic-synth disc. The entire object is slightly floppy, and appears to serve as a crude magneticstorage, but there is no way to read the limited data it contains (if indeed it contains any).
A metal skeletal hand attached to a long pole. Squeezing the grip at the end of the pole causes thehand to slightly flex its fingers.
A black synth sphere filled with an unknown liquid. On one side is a transparent section throughwhich a small object with unknown writing can be seen.
A synth simulacra of a child that has eyes that open and close depending on its orientation.
A pendant of blue crystalline material from which tiny wisps of blue smoke constantly unfurl.
A tiny metal cylinder tipped with a small nodule which, when licked, delivers a slight electric tingleto the tongue.
A synth cylinder with a lens at one end. When looked into, random colored patterns can be seen.
A small, slim, featureless black rectangle of pliable, soft, but tough material. It tastes sweet butcannot be chewed or eaten.
A small rectangular device that emits maniacal laughter when shaken.
A small, clear tetrahedron that displays a different face every day. Usually the face is smiling, but onevery fifth day it is weeping. No face is ever repeated.
A white synth disc on a metal chain. if held dangling in the air, it spins rapidly and blinks when apregnant woman is nearby. Green for girl, orange for boy.
Piece of black cloth that when unfolded, displays an unknown island with several cities on it. Simplecontrols allow panning, zooming, rotation. Buildings with people and creatures are visible living outtiny little lives, but no other interaction is possible.
Small blue synth bag. When opened on a surface, hundreds of tiny, green ants march out, find nearbysmall objects (coins, pins, buttons, beads etc.) and begin hauling them back towards the bag.
A wooden box with a switch on the outside. When the switch is flipped on, a flap in the box opens, alittle arm comes out, and it pushes the switch back off, before disappearing. (This \"useless machine\"actually exists).
A pair of contact lenses which periodically blink horizontally.
A bag of sparkling plastic dust which slowly refills when emptied
A small radio which picks up the music of a bygone age
A metallic disk which lights up in alignment to overhead satellites
A ceramic whistle which summons specific, nearby servitor androids
A folded piece of synth-paper with strange words and symbols that plays foreign music whenunfolded.
A squishy ball, that changes colors when you clench it in your hand.
An apparently clear synth cube that displays a different vista \"within\" each face.
A synth torus filled with gel.
A three legged pair of trousers.
A mask that makes the wearer's face appear upside-down.
A metal polygon that gives off random odors - pleasant and foul - when touched.
Two small balls that circle each other when placed on a flat surface.
A strange earpiece that randomly tunes in to static-filled alien transmissions.
A squidgy sphere that screams and wails when it's squeezed.
A cracked mirror that shows the viewer as he was years ago, uninjured and in the prime of youthand health.
A squishy ball which returns when thrown
A triangular piece of cloth with strange markings, which when waved plays a strange tune.
A ceramic bucket which when filled with water, slowly empties to somewhere else.
A cloak which changes color to match whatever bird is closest.
A ring that moves from finger to finger each day.
A small container of golden fluid that, when poured out, pours itself back in.
A deck of oddly marked cards that shuffle themselves.
A lozenge of pliable synth that turns the holder's fingertips a random color for a day.
A tiny pot that fills itself with blue sand each day.
A pendant that makes the wearer's ears furry when worn.
A small ring that spins on its edge at great speed for precisely 11 seconds.
A fist-sized pyramid of felt-like substance that pulses slowly but steadily.
A twist of wood-like substance in which the knots and grains slowly flow.
A disk of glass-like material that leaves a glowing pink impression of whatever was last pressed on itfor up to an hour.
A transparent cube containing an hourglass-shaped vial. A figure is inside the hourglass on one side.When the cube is tilted, the figure disappears, and a different figure appears on the other side.Depending on how you tilt the cube, different figures may appear.
A glass sphere with a nearly(?) infinite progression of glass spheres within it.
A pair of shoes which reduce the weight of the wearer by 5 pounds
A pegboard with 10 pegs. The pegs change color based on patterns and/or proximity to other pegs
A non-shin coin which always reappears in the owners pocket, unchanged from its original form.
A peculiar device that removes all dirt and grease from the holder, depositing it as a ball at theholder’s feet.
A ball of sweet gum that emits light like a torch when chewed.
A golden ring with alien script that only becomes visible when subjected to flame.
An aerosol that leaves a mobile human face on any surface on which it is sprayed lasting for an hour.
An eyeball encased in crystal.
A hat designed for a two-headed being.
A fabric pocket that attaches itself to any fabric it is placed on.
A choker-like item that renders the wearer’s speech backwards when worn. Doog yrev!
A synth plate that keeps any food placed upon it hot or cold for up to an hour.
A capsule containing a biomechanical maggot that cleans the user’s teeth when placed in themouth.
A bag full of tentacles
Dwarven Engineer's Boots make walking on broken stone, rock falls, etc. as easy as walking on level ground, but anything greener than a well-manicured lawn becomes difficult terrain
A lens that grants Truesight under a clear night sky and reveals horrible prophecies in the stars
Manacles that Charm Person while applied
A holly bush fruits every week, producing 2d6 berries. Druids can use these berries as if produced by the Goodberry spell, or throw them as Fire bolt. Non-druids handling the berries must make a Con save or become poisoned.
A Rapier of Daring Deeds +1 that gives its wielder advantage on saves to avoid fear effects and adds 1 to the DM's wandering monster checks
An amulet that, when you crit on a weapon attack, summons a ghostly duplicate of your weapon that lasts for 1d6 combat rounds. It acts on your initiative and attacks your target. The amulet draws 1d3 hp from you per round to maintain the duplicate.
Sheets of magical vellum -- write a message and a trigger on them, stick them to a wall, and when the trigger occurs a Magic Mouth appears on the vellum and speaks the message. Upgraded versions sink into the wall when placed and cause the Magic Mouth to appear on the wall itself.
Fearful hauberk -- this suit of Heavy armour +1 grants the wearer advantage on Intimidation checks but disadvantage on Persuasion checks, and looks like something off of a GWAR album cover
Used by Efreeti to keep their mortal thralls obedient and well-hydrated, this Everfull waterskin never empties, but any who drink from it suffer disadvantage on Wisdom saves until they next become thirsty. It's also impervious to fire.
Coins removed from this purse will extinguish fires and freeze water they're cast into. The volume of fire or water affected depends on the value of the coin, and the coin vanishes when used. Some of these purses inflict frostbite on thieves who try to steal from them.
These rings, when braided into the wearer's hair (most commonly a dwarf's beard), are a last defense against death. If the wearer is slain or knocked unconscious by an attack, the ring vanishes and the wearer stays conscious at 1hp. Magical sources heal the wearer of this ring for one fewer hit point per application.
This dagger allows you to peel apples, oranges, potatoes, captives, &c. as a bonus action
This foul-tasting potion restores a spell slot at the cost of one hit die per spell level of the slot restored
This deep green pigment will only dissolve in blood. Once activated, the pigments may be used to draw a sigil on a door that acts as an Arcane Lock, allowing only the creature who contributed the blood to pass.
A bottle of wine that, when consumed, grants the drinker Clairvoyance for 1d6 minutes per ounce. Drinkers are poisoned while clairvoyant.
If the party starts a campfire with this magical kindling, wandering monsters will avoid them overnight and dead gods will speak to them in their dreams
Food cooked with these enchanted spices acts as a Suggestion spell, cast by the cook, on any who eat it.
Dwarven War Bread - This near-unbreakable bread can be used as a bludgeoning weapon equivalent to an adamantine club. Any creature attempting to consume Dwarven War Bread must make a DC 40 Fortitude save or break a tooth.
Boots of Tremorsense. They quickly became one of my player's most treasured items. He often talks about how they are priceless, and will never give them away. About to be ambushed by burrowing worms? Is there a lower floor to this dungeon? Does this ground seem solid enough?
Robe of Formlessness. Allows the wearer to turn into a puddle of mud that retains its senses. Useful for being sneaky, cautious, or fitting into tight places.
Ring of the red serpent. Summons a red serpent upon being adorned. The serpent used should be just below the party's level. It is a permanent companion, and quite strong, but if it dies, the ring breaks. It takes a full round action to dismiss the snake, and the player must be adjacent to the serpent at this time. The snake heals normally when recalled, so it may take several days for it to recover from a tough battle.
Obelisk Gauntlets. Gauntlets that allow the wearer to make an ornate pillar as a full round action. There may only be one pillar at a time, and how big the pillar is depends upon the level of your party.
Watcher Stone. A fist sized rock with a crudely carved eye upon it. Can be expended to project the users vision upon any surface in sight, as if they are looking from that surface (If they choose a spot on the ceiling, they look down upon themselves and the rest of the room, over walls etc;)
Sandstone. Can be broken to conjure a sandstorm in 1D4 minutes. Only works in dry, above-ground places.
Vest of deathfeasting. Black snakeskin vest. Can kill a dying creature to sap its life-force. Grants a temporary boost to the physical stats, as well as an equal amount of healing and temporary hp (D8, but it could easily be more for high level characters).
Orb of Amethyst. A jagged, unshaped chunk of amethyst in a vaguely spherical form. Wielded as a one handed weapon, allows the user to make a ray attack with a 30 ft range. This attack deals no damage, but instead teleports the target 20 ft in a direction chosen by the player. Roll a D10. 1-8 work as a splash weapon does, 9 puts them exactly where the player intended, and 10 jaunts the target into the ethereal plane for 1D3 rounds.
Babble Stones: A set of three white, smooth stones the size of your palm. These mystical stone's distort the holder's voice into in incomprehensible gibberish to all listeners. The only way to make sense of it is to hold another stone of this set.
Arrow of Traveling - the arrow's head is a small piece of quartz. When fired from a bow, the arrow activates. When the arrow lands, the arrow and the archer switch places. Good for a quick escape or getting into a high castle window. If everyone in your party carries some quartz, it can be an effective method of transportation.
Box filled with mundane items (plates, napkins, silverware) that makes you intensely desire whatever is inside it on a saved will throw.
Statue of Good Weather
Totem of Good Crops
Shirt of Good Smells
Torch of Everlasting Night: An infinite torch whose light cannot be seen unless touched by it. Meaning that the light is only seen if you are within 90 feet of the torch; great for being undetected from across a field or while sneaking in a manor.
Treant's Bane: A short sword made from stone. It slices through wood with the ease of a hot knife through butter. Otherwise this sword is treated as a crude stone sword.
A braided leather anklet that gives it's wearer full control of his/her facial hair.
Twin pitchers: Whatever sound reaches one pitcher the other pitcher will emit.
Omen Artifact has no special powers, just the following description: This small piece of glowing crystal is the most beautiful thing you have ever seen. It conveys great power and is worth an insane amount of money - of this you are absolutely certain.
This highly adorned totem, when shaken, causes all primitive creatures nearby to dance and sing.
This silver thimble unbuttons buttons, loosens drawstrings, unbuckles buckles, etc. with just a tap.
A dimly glowing sphere, warm to the touch. Surrounds the bearer with a bubble of spring, melting snow and blooming plants.
An earring that when worn, shocks the wearer every time they tell a lie.
Ermine religious robes that bestow on the wearer the ability to perceive the most recent sins of those around them.
A rustic pair of boots that allow the wearer to walk on walls, but causes severe clumsiness on\"regular\" ground
A ring, when thrown, projects a true-to-life illusion (including sound!) of everything you do for a few minutes.
An object not unlike a cluster of glass grapes, each displaying a cloudy view to another plane of existence.
A blade, that upon slaying an enemy stores their body and soul inside.
A small silver ring, that when peered through,, shows the faces of your ancestors. 
An amulet, when rubbed against any substance, imparts nutritional value and changes the texture to cheese. No change in flavor.
 Piestone: A small magic stone, about the size and shape of a good skipping stone. When rubbed between the fingers, it fills the entire room with the STRONG scent of pie. The effect created is much more powerful than a prestidigitation effect. Can blind creatures that hunt by scent, or lure things into a room.
The Fork of Greater Poultry: Anything eaten with this fork tastes like chicken.
The Knife of Perfect Cutting: A magic butter knife that changes shape depending on what you want to cut with it. It becomes a bread knife when the user thinks about cutting bread, a steak knife when he thinks about cutting meat, and transforms into a +0 broadsword when the user thinks about cutting a person. 
 The Spoon of Infinite Mixing: This spoon will continue stirring itself when inserted into a bowl or cup of liquid.
A 'God-Helmet' that explained the universe when you put it on. It usually just fried your brain though, small chance of enlightenment or instant death.
A little knife that can cut through any substance. Every time you cut through something, however, part of the knife melted away. The party ended up killing a dragon with this thing.
Bountiful Spade: Characters who use this enchanted farm implement to turn over the earth prior to planting a field receive a +3 bonus on their agriculture proficiency check for that year.
7 Bolts of gold embroidered fabric: Trade Goods: The finest linens from the Far East and fancy royal robes could be made with these.
Silver Sickles: Coins: These crescent moon-shaped coins are large enough to hold a copper farthing in their inner diameter
Manticore Nesting Materials: Monster Garbage: Amongst the sticks and rocks that make up the nest, an assortment of rusty weapons, tattered clothes, horse barding and other gear can be found. If the party spends 10 minutes going through it all, they find a scroll case with the King's messenger service emblem on the lid and a few coin purses containing 34 gold pieces.
Mezzard's Pipe: Smoking Pipe: Mezzard Youngstrike?s pipe. Stories tell that Mezzard used wizard?s weed religiously and was always seen with a pipe in hand or mouth. This pipe?s magic constantly refills its bowl with whatever wizard?s weed is contained in the enchanted pouch connected to it.
Mezzard's Enchanted Pouch: Drug Pouch: Mezzard Youngstrike?s pouch that is linked to Mezzard?s Pipe. The interior of the pouch is a 20ft square space used to keep Wizard?s Weed and other drugs. The interior of the pouch keeps all plants and drugs fresh for use forever, untainted by outside sources. If you put this pouch in another extradimensional space, ie bag of holding, both extradimensional spaces collapse and a portal to the Astral Plane opens, sucking in anything within 10 feet and teleporting them to a random location on the Astral Plane. The portal is one way.
Coatl Feather: Creature Bits: This foot long, iridescent feather is supple to the touch. Though it does not retain any of the magical essence of its former owner, it could fetch a reasonable price from a collector or fashion designer.
Illithidium Ingot: Metal: A 5kg gunmetal gray ingot with an oily purple sheen and spiralling engravings on its surface. Crafted by Mindflayers in the depths below through unspeakable rituals, it is psychoreactive, psionically moldable, and supernaturally durable and useful for crafting if one knows how to work it. Whatever unnatural force binds this metal together is destroyed by purifying sunlight, causing it to rapidly rust away, even when magically enchanted.
Blasphemous Statuettes: Art: This set of 8cm tall figurines depict the gods engaged in lewd, lascivious, or otherwise despicable acts unbefitting their divine nature. Extensively detailed in all the wrong places. Collectors should be careful not to complete the whole set, lest they bring down the wrath of the heavens upon themselves.
Tome of Arousal: Better than Nothing Magical Item: This five-thousand word, clinical manual is an immensely detailed description of the physiological and neurological processes of arousal and alertness. Some minor magic has infiltrated the tome and causes a heightened state of self-awareness after ten minutes of reading. Reading the tome for an hour or more produces a sensation akin to continual sexual arousal and stimulation. These effects cease the instant the reader looks away from the tome. If the reader continues to read for longer than 8 hours, they experience random, acute narcoleptic episodes for the following 24 hours.
Skin-bound Ledger: Information: A small lined notebook bound in supple, tanned leather, with a dedication in the front cover reading \"Binding from Reijek, RIP.\" Touching the ledger produces a deep sense of revulsion strong enough to prevent the weak-willed from looking at its contents. Inside is written a detailed list of transactions, with columns for Name, Quantity (g), Surface Area(m2 ), Skin Quality, and Police Inquiry (y/n?).
Zerth Braid: Consumable Magic Item: Taken from an elderly Githzerai monk, this 10cm length of dark brown hair contains a shadow of its former owner's psionic power. As an action, it may be used to cast Mage Hand (the hand is invisible) once per short rest. It may also be used to cast Shield as a reaction, but is destroyed in the process as it expends the entirety of its energy.
Orb of Vacuum Polarization: McGuffin: Filled with scintillating colors and pinpoints of light swirling in a nebula, this large glass orb randomly fills the vacuum of space with infinitesimal matter and anti-matter pairs that immediately annihilate each other. This partially counteracts electric fields in a vacuum, albeit minorly. Sounds powerful, but no one is quite sure what any of that means.
Okayberries: Supplies: Collected from large shrubberies in the deep woods where little light penetrates the canopy, these slightly unripe, purple berries are hard and mostly flavorless. A creature can use its action to eat an Okayberry. Eating a berry restores 0.5 hitpoints (rounded down), and the berry provides enough nourishment to sustain a creature for 15 minutes. Up to 6d4 berries are found at a time, and spoil after 2 weeks. They never fully ripen or taste any better.
Moistanite: Gems: Glimmering, clear gems that can be magically produced during storms of wild magic. Each is as brilliant and clear as a diamond, but they are usually larger and less over-priced, though they are- paradoxically- magically inert and useless as components in spells. They are perpetually clammy and precipitate dew even in the driest desert. A large handful of Moistanite may be squeezed to produce a trickle of clean water.
Tin of Inspiration: Better than Nothing Magic Item: A pocket-sized, metal box with inspirational quotes painted on the side in various languages (\"You can do it!\", \"Follow your dreams!\", and, inexplicably, \"Losing isn't so bad!\"). Opening the hinged lid of the box reveals a small illusory locker room containing a coach in the middle of a high-pitched, half-time pep-talk to a group of underdogs. Closer inspection reveals every entity in the box has the exact physical features of the person who opened the box. The speech will continue as long as the box is open, though the coach becomes increasingly desperate, sweaty, and incoherent after 2 hours. When the box is closed, there is a barely audible cheer of \"Team spirit!\" from the entities.
Overly-excited Throwing Stars: Ranged: Sentient shuriken that when thrown scream \"Wheeeee!\", negating sneak attack damage.
Porcelain Plate of Anger: Better than Nothing Magical Items: This white dinner plate is simply adorned with a blue stripe that goes around the brim. When someone picks up the plate, they must immediately make a will save (or game equivalent) or be irrationally angry for 1d4+1 rounds. In addition, the plate is then immediately thrown against the nearest wall or ground (This effect takes up the first round of anger). The plate shatters upon impact, but magically fixes itself after 1d6 minutes. The rage effect can happen three of times per day per person. If the person picking up the plate is a barbarian that has rage rounds, these rounds can be used as free rage rounds. The number of rounds caused by the plate does not count against the number of rounds they can rage in a day.
Blade Tattoo: Consumable Magic Item: Tattoo and ink set allowing up to 12 tattoos to be made. Can be used to tattoo any non-magical weapon onto a live body. As a bonus action can be removed, tearing the tattoo from the skin, which forms into a bony, fleshy form of that weapon. DC 12 Con when removed, on failure take 1d6 damage and nauseated for one round. On success, take half damage. Weapon dissolves after five minutes.
Simple Bunting: Better than Nothing Magical Items: A brightly-colored flag checkered with a diamond-pattern, this seemingly innocuous piece of fabric is both stylish and functional. When worn or attached to a weapon, the bunting creates a chameleon-like effect and coats the clothing of the wearer in an illusionary layer matching the color/pattern of the bunting.
Obsidian Star: Gems: Carved out of jet-black obsidian, this star-shaped gemstone is a wonder to behold. It is always cold to the touch, even when placed in the hottest furnace. Only Dwarves possess the capabilities and knowledge to cut or reshape this precious gemstone.
Tangled Wire Mesh: Art: It's a bundle of metal bits fused together with heat. That's it. But it's classified as 'art' so I'm sure somebody would be willing to pay a hefty sum for it. It's a shame the artist didn't want to take credit for such a memorable piece.
Bell of Bleating: Better than Nothing Magical Items: A simple brass bell that is typically found around the neck of a goat. When rung, it mimics the sound of a goat bleating. Become the shepherd you never knew you wanted to be!
Golden Gold-Leaf Leaf: Treasure: An intricate oak leaf cast in gold and covered in micro-thin gold-leaf. The redundancy is real. Don't leaf it behind!
Folding Bridge: Better than nothing magic items: This item looks like an unassuming 8 ft. plank of lumber, but close examination of the ends reveals seams in the wood. The seams can be pulled apart to unfold the plank to form a solid bridge of any of the following sizes: It takes a full round to unfold the bridge from one size to the next. It can be folded back up to its portable size at the same rate. Once unfolded, the bridge can be placed across any gap and holds in place without apparent support. It can withstand up to 40,000 pounds in weight; any excess weight causes the bridge to break, permanently destroying it. The bridge can be easily be lifted at either end. Regardless of size the bridge itself always weighs the same as it does in its plank form (15 lb.) plus the weight of whatever is currently atop it. The collapsible bridge can be attuned to a particular person. Once attuned, only that person may unfold or fold the bridge, until it is attuned to someone else. Furthermore, only the person so attuned can lift the bridge once placed.
Inflatable Skeletons Box: Better than nothing magic items: A palm-sized heaxagonal box carved from ebony, with a removal lid on both sides. Both lids are etched in the design of a skull, one smaller than the other. When opened, the off-white contents within begin inflating rapidly like a balloon filling with gas. If the larger skull lid is removed, after thirty seconds of inflation a human skeleton appears in a free space adjacent to the box. The skeleton is genuine and not in itself magical. If the smaller skull lid is removed, inflation takes twenty seconds and a halfling skeleton appears instead. The box can create one inflatable skeleton per day. If a skeleton is created while another exists, the first crumbles to dust. Perfect for causing distractions, framing enemies, and entertaining at children's parties.
Laughing Idol: Better than nothing magic items: A six-inch high statuette carved of jade in the likeness of a hugely overweight robed man in the throws of laughter. Once per day, the statuette can be rubbed to immediately cause sapient creatures within a 60-foot radius centred on the statue, with the exception of the creature who rubbed the idol, to make a Wisdom saving throw (DC 13). On a failure, the creature is suddenly immensely amused and unable to contain their high spirits, becoming both incapacitated and restrained on their next turn following the saving throw.
Gideon's Impossible Lantern: Better Than Nothing Magical Item: The lantern that burns water as it is sometimes known. How exactly Archmage Gideon made this lantern is unknown, but it is known that he never needed candles again and saved a fortune in whale oil. Any liquid that fills the lantern will burn as bright as the bearer wishes it to, but will produce no heat.
Phoenix Downs: Creature Bits: These soft red feathers are obtained the same way as regular downs, such as from a goose or a swan, but at considerably greater risk for considerably greater profit.
Ring of Farsight: Joke Magical Item: This pleasantly shiny ring, when turned 3 times about the ring-finger, will show the wearer 5 seconds of what will be happening to their location 3,000 years from now.
Barnaby's Arcane Pulley: Better Than Nothing Magical Item: This resembles a regular pulley with 200ft of thin string attached to it, however the string is magically reinforced, giving it the ability to move up to 1,000lbs when pulled on.
The Ring of Solomon: Powerful Magical Item: Not an item to be trifled with, this item gives the user the ability to command creatures not of this plane. The user must raise the ring to point at the creature in question and speak its words of power, whereupon the creature will fall under the user's command unless it is warded by powerful magic. Unfortunately the words of the ring are lost to the mists of time.
Gideon's Last Wish: Better Than Nothing Magical Item: The last known relic of Archmage Gideon. This amulet hangs around the user's neck with a minor enchantment on it that makes it slightly uncomfortable to wear, unable to be dispelled. The mechanism by which it activates has never been properly observed, however whenever circumstances are dire it lends its aid in some way that may often go unnoticed. Rumour has it that this is the soul of the vanished Gideon himself bound within the amulet, influencing the world with his powerful magic.
Tablet of Yelong: Powerful Magical Item: The tablet of Yelong was granted to the infamous Warlock by his patron, Orcus. The lord of the undead inscribed it with dark and foreboding runes, that grant whoever holds the tablet the power to raise the dead to fight for him. While Yelong lived no mortal army could destroy him, as with every casualty his forces grew ever stronger. With his death the tablet, untouched by all attempts to destroy it, was sealed in a lead coffin and dropped into the deepest pits of the Underdark.
Ring of Duo-Dimension: Joke magical item: Upon wearing this cursed ring, which appears to be a Ring of Protection, the character becomes two-dimensional. Their depth is placed on the Astral Plane and they become a 2D being with only width and bredth. From the side they are totally invisible and they can squeeze through any gap without expending additional movement, and are especially vulnerable to being pierced or cut.
High Elf Pipeweed: They call 'em High Elves for a reason: Commonly burned in the forest courts High Elf Pipeweed is a type of hemp impregnated with the deep magic of the Feywild. When the smoke from burning it in a magical fire is inhaled it may give magical visions of the future or the past, and as such is favored by oracles and soothsayers. Under the effects of antimagic it merely produces a light-headed feeling and a desire to eat apples.
Darkspice: Supplies: One of the world's most valuable commodities, Darkspice produces a subtle, smokey flavour and a slow-burning heat that is highly prized by gourmets the world over. With the only source for this spice being the caves beneath tropical zones a handful can be worth enough money to keep a man living comfortably for life.
Bloodsoup: Supplies: The stable of Orcish \"cuisine\" this bitter vegetable soup apparently tastes like nothing to their palette. Experiments with Half-Orcs have thus far been inconclusive. The main ingredient is bloodgrass and other herbs, along with small amounts of meat. A single waterskin's worth of Bloodsoup can feed an Orc for two days, and it provides a great deal of nourishment for armies on the campaign trail relative to the cost to produce.
The Jib Cutter: Joke Magical Item: This glittering steel knife, with a jeweled golden hilt, is the bane of dandies everywhere. Upon falling into your hands you become blithe and insensitive, forced to say the first thing that comes into your head in conversation.
Cormac's Kilt of Holding: Just what does he keep under there?: Fashioned carefully from two Bags of Holding by the Druid Cormac some time ago, the kilt of holding can be worn just like a regular kilt. But as long as the wearer is wearing nothing else underneath it it functions in the same way as a Bag of Holding.
rules: man!: Similar to a Horn of Valhalla this horn summons a large group of Orcs in place of the regular human berserkers. However they have no proficiency with weapons or armor, and instead carry instruments and dancing shoes with which they will stage a production. There are four different types of horn that produce different types of performance:
The Household Staff: Better Than Nothing Magical Item: When placed at the centre of a house or mansion with adjacent lands of no less than 5 miles this staff will summon enough Unseen Servants to perform every rudimentary task that needs doing. Cleaning, cooking delicious meals, gardening, slipper fetching etc will all be done by the servants punctually and efficiently. However they will not follow orders from the owner and will continue their tasks until the staff is moved.
The Chronicles of Theodoro Slavado: Information: Salvado was/is an explorer hired by many influential nobles to map different areas of the world. As such his notes contain detailed descriptions of each place he visited, along with the important figures and the local customs and culture. Salvado's current whereabouts are unknown, the last the was heard of him was just before he voyage to investigate the Cannibal Islands, claiming that \"The name can't be that literal.\"
Valaran's Ring: Magical Item: Valaran wandered the earth, a prophet to some, an omen of doom to others. Wither he walked he would not say. Some claim he was lost and seeking something that befuddled even him, others that he had seen some vision of a dark future he must prevent, others say he wanders still and is wandering for its own sake. Valaran's ring is named in his honor, though it was worn by men before him and he predicted it would have a thousand masters after he gave it away. When wearing the ring the bearer need only speak the name of their destination and they will be guided there inexorably, led down forgotten paths and routes that offer the quickest travel with the least danger.
Dahrruin's Bow: Powerful Magical Item: Dahrruin, son of Setenan of the Lancathan Dynasty was a prince of Elvenkind who could shoot another arrow from the sky with his own, or so it was claimed. This bow bears a special affinity for Elves and when wielded by one they may fire arrows with it without being seen and with unerring accuracy, as they whisper through the air to find the throats of enemies.
Crown of the Sunken King: Powerful Magical Item: A relic of the Sunken City of Hellionsberg, as long as the user is standing waist-deep in salty water the city's portal to the Elemental Plane of Water will disgorge three water elementals every hour that will obey all the user's commands.
Flint & Steel: Powerful Magical Item: Flint is a greatsword that is a dark, shiny black like polished flint, with a curious and vaguely cruciform groove in the pommel that runs up and onto the blade. When wielded alone it will be nothing more than ordinary. Steel is a shortsword that shines like silver polished to a mirror sheen, imbued with magical properties it will shock living flesh with sparks of electricity when brought into contact with it. When combined the purpose of Flint's groove is made obvious, as Steel fits securely into it and cannot be removed except by the one who is attuned to Flint. When the two combined strike anything flames are produced that will burn the target.
Sarcophagus of the Ancestors: Potentially Useful Magical Item: While a character lies in the Sarcophagus of the Ancestors without illumination and the lid tightly sealed they may speak to their ancestors. No sound from within the sarcophagus may escape into the outside world and the lid is too heavy to lift from the inside.
Spud Gun: Better than Nothing Magical Items: No ammunition is required, as this strange cylindrical device reloads itself, presumably from the Elemental Plane of Potato. Range: 30/120 feet Damage: 1 + DEX bludgeoning damage (Unless proficient in Food Fighting, then 1d6 + DEX) Properties: Two-handed, Ranged
Stormplate: Armour: Wrought in bright steel, this ornate (+1) plate armour has lightning bolt patterns raised from its surface in blue-burnished metal. Other symbols and icons of the Storm Spirits also decorate the armour, and are included on the buckles and clasps. Once per short/long rest, the wearer may, when hit by a melee attack, cause the attacking creature to take 1d8 lightning damage (1d12 if the wearer is associated with the spirits of the storm) as a reaction.
Golden Pseudodragon Statue: Art: This lifesize golden statue of a pseudodragon is perfect in its detail. The creature is captured, almost photographically, rising on its hind legs, neck outstretched, as if to greet some friendly hand which is in turn reaching out to stroke its reptilian head. Such quality, finesse, and attention to detail is unheard of in modern casting methods, and were it not so preposterous a concept, one could be forgiven for thinking that it might be a living being, cursed by some unknown magics in the distant past.
Perfectly Ordinary ChickenTM: Pet: It's a chicken.
The Squeezy Dolphin of Endless Water: Magic Item: This is, to all intents and porpoises, a Decanter of Endless Water, with one small variation - it seems to be a child's toy, which produces only a small squirt of water when squeezed. If this is truly a childs toy, then what does that tell us of the power of the ancient civilisation that created it? And why did it find itself in such a dark and terrible place as where it was found?
Mazes & ManticoresTM GM Set: Gaming Set: This chest contains a wide variety of items. Maps of made-up continents and cities, sets of polyhedral dice in a variety of colours, pens and pencils, \"Character Sheets\", and a set of large books talking about \"XP\" and \"Levels\".
Dice Tower of Fortune: Meta-Magic Item: This short rod is assembled from a series of regular polygons, with 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 20 sides respectively. You can use one of the dice to achieve the maximum roll of that dice type when one is rolled during the game. In doing so, the corresponding dice vanishes from the block. This is intended to be something that you might even make (from cheap dice and blu-tak, perhaps?) and hand to the player who loots it. It will appear, in-game, to be a simple object, albeit one with a faintly magical aura. Once attuned to the object, the character learns that they can call on its power when in need. I called \"meta-magic item\" because it's sort of in the boundary between player and character, if that makes any sense.
Tricksy Rope: Magic Item: Touching the rope will activate it, but will also drain 1d4 HP. Once activated, the rope will obey your mental commands to the best of its ability. It can rear up like a snake, and tie itself in knots. Touching other sections of rope to it will lengthen the rope, whilst decreasing its dexterity.
Tim's Never-Empty Flask: Better than Nothing Magic Item: This unassuming steel flask is always filled with wine, no matter how many swigs you take.
Eau de Faerie: Better than Nothing Magic Item: This crystal nebulizer with a pink bulb mists a pleasant floral perfume. The scent of the perfume lasts for one hour after application and makes you irresistible to pixies, sprites, and goblins. These creatures can smell you from up to 1,000 feet away and will attempt to touch you, unless you have shown yourself to be a threat to them. Hobgoblins and bugbears can also smell the scent from 1,000 feet away, but they will become furious when they get within 30 feet of you and realize that you are not, in fact, a tasty pixie or sprite.
Ghoulflesh Scented Candles: Better than Nothing Magic Item: When you burn this candle, the smoky odor of roasting ghoulflesh fills the room, ideal for setting the mood for foul necromantic rituals, preparing volunteers for human sacrifice, and all manner of depraved acts involving corpses. The scent sickens any living creature that comes within 30 feet of the candle for 1 minute.
Giant Owl Pellet: Creature Bits: A giant owl pellet is a disgusting tangle of fur, bones, and feathers. Sometimes, if you dig into it, you can find a few coins that some unfortunate creature may have swallowed or carried, thinking them lucky, only to be, in turn, swallowed by a giant owl. The pellet contains 1d4 - 2 silver pieces and 1d6 - 3 copper pieces, if you take the time to pick through it carefully.
Owlbear Pellet: Creature Bits: If you thought the giant owl pellet was disgusting, you don't want to know what you might find in an owlbear's pellet.
Fire Beetle Glowing Gland: Creature Bits: This fist-size organ is a little gooey in your hand, but it sheds light like a torch for up to 8 hours after being removed from the beetle.
Crocodile Skin: Creature Bits: In the right hands, this could make a fine pair of boots.
Lizardfolk Skin: Creature Bits: In the right hands, this could make a fine pair of boots. Be warned: It's best if you tell everyone the boots are crocodiles. Moralizers who are against the wearing of the pelts of sentient creatures have been known to splash wearers of lizardfolk-skin boots with buckets of chicken blood.
Minotaur's Horns: Creature Bits: Long, thick, with a pointy tip, these horns would look great over your fireplace. Perhaps you could convince that odd little guy who lived down the lane and liked to whittle too much to carve you a nice pair of hunting horns.
Minotaur's Manhood: Creature Bits: Long, thick, and covered in coarse fur, legends speak of incredibility virility being gifted upon those who eat it. Some swear by it, and I've heard it tastes quite good in a stew with barley and broccoli.
Eye of the Necromancer: Creature Bits: This is the necromancer's eye. He put it out with a hot poker, preserved it by mummification, then animated it with a foul ritual. The eye twitches a bit, but otherwise it doesn't appear to do anything. However, the one-eyed necromancer, wherever he is, can see what the eye sees as if it were still in his head (provided he didn't damage it too badly with the hot poker).
Riv Stecke's Guide to Fey Crossings: Book: This book will help you find the nearest fey crossing to make your way into the Feywild. Most of the fey crossings listed have ceased to function due to being over-run with travelers since the publication of this book. However, a few of them still work. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes three days of downtime to read), you have advantage on knowledge checks relating to fey crossings.
Bold Alehouse Favorites, by Bob Bayfly: Book: This book is a must-have for the cook in any lonesome wayside inn, bustling city tavern, or adventuring party who's sick of rations. Within the pages of the book are new twists on recipes for salted pork and beans, beef and barley stew, roasted duck with apples, honey-glazed carrots and parsnips, stuffed trout fillets and many more, along with suggested ale and mead pairings. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes two days of downtime to read), you have advantage on checks made using cook's utensils.
Cosmos-ology, by Cal Sargan: Book: A guide to the multiverse written in plain language by one of the leading experts in metaphysics and interplanar travel. Sargan was the greatest communicator among the wizards, priests, sages, and other scholars of his generation who studied the heavens, the stars, and the strange spaces in between. Tragically, he left the world through a portal several decades ago and has not found his way back. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes ten days of downtime to read), you have advantage on knowledge checks relating to the Astral Sea and the Far Realm.
Interview with Some Vampires, by Ena Neric: Book: The author spent extensive time meeting with a wide range of known vampires. Her precise question-and-answer style writing has become the definitive work on the subject of these cursed undead. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes three days of downtime to read), you have advantage on knowledge checks relating to the vampires.
Werewolves in the Mist, by Dossia Fyne: Book: The author devoted her life to studying the habits of werewolves and other lycanthropes, particularly those who have chosen feral lives far from civilization in the deep forests of the world. Her book is an early voice in the argument against clearing of the forests. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes three days of downtime to read), you have advantage on knowledge checks relating to the lycanthropes.
Robe of Guilt: Clothing: This fine black robe will make you look guilty. When a crime is committed while you are in the room or general area, questioning eyes will turn to accusing eyes as they fall upon you.
Moonfear Shield: Shield: This shiny silver shield is emblazoned with the cycles of the moon, with the full moon largest and nearest the top, surrounded by intricate tree-branch patterns. If during a full moon, a lycanthrope misses you with a melee weapon attack while you are wielding this shield, you can use the opportunity to slip away (you can use your reaction to Disengage [or similar action in other editions]).
Blade of Remove Evil: Sword: This mundane-looking sword will simply pass through a being of good. A being with impure thoughts or evil ideas will have them purged from him/her for several hours. Due to its affect on free will it is considered unethical and even sinful to use this weapon.
Blade of Reject Evil: Sword: A well made sword. It passes through all beings, it harms the impure more that the pure of heart. The flaw of this weapon is that the purity of the heart is from the perspective of the target, meaning it will not affect truly evil beings who feel justified in their actions.
Blade of Rebuke Evil: Sword: A beautiful sword. This incredibly dangerous weapon causes the evil within one hit by it to explode outwards. This blade appears almost sentient, and does not forgive sins. The explosion caused will have a total power based on the total \"sins\" of an individual over their lifetime.
Blade of Relinquish Evil: Sword: A broken, rusted sword, one struck by this blade is absolved of all evil. This changes the personality of the target entirely, removing all impure thoughts and memories. This power comes at a cost, for the wielder takes damage equal to the amount of \"sin\" absolved.
Blade of Realize Evil: Sword: A common-looking sword, indistinguishable from any other sword, seems to change appearance slightly based on its location. The wielder of this weapon gains a strong sense of how \"evil\" any opponent is while in combat with them.
Ring of Whoring: Ring: The wearer of this ring will become the most popular (wo)man in the brothel, despite nothing physically changing. Prostitutes will not ask for payment. No one knows how this enchantment works, but the nature of it leaves it rather valuable to some.
Potion of Dying Will: Consumable: Drinking this potion will certainly kill its user. It however brings great strength and speed to the one willing so sacrifice everything. The user of this potion are engulfed in harmless flames of their favorite color. It is said that these potions are very rare and usually are only made by accident.
Gnawed Moon Charm: Amulet/Consumable: A glassy charm in the shape of a moon, with many claw and tooth marks. The person in possession of this item is affected by the werewolf curse, changing on a full moon. If this item is broken by its owners hand at dusk they will become a werewolf that night, regardless of the moon.
Circlet of Endowment: Headpiece: A rather unclean looking circlet of galvanized steel with a green glass centerpiece. It makes certain features of the wearer appear greater. For men, crotch and shoulders look larger. For women breasts and rear appear larger. A warning, many know the look of this rather unattractive artifact.
Bathhouse silk: Trade goods: Strange silk often dyed a deep blue. The touch of this silk feels unmistakably as if one is underwater.
Living Paintings: furniture: Paintings that exhibit a regular and repeating movement, within the picture. Each individual painting is different, and may feature an animal grooming, a person waving or any other small action. Many are too superstitious to have one in their home, the right buyer however would pay handsomely.
Synchronized Sculptures: Better than Nothing Magical Items: This pair of ~6-inch tall soft clay statuettes are magically linked. Any alterations made to one sculpture are reflected in the other. Disclaimer: the magical sculptor is a slow worker. Changes may take as long as 4 hours to be implemented.
Memories in Amber: Better than Nothing Magical Items: These typically looking small gemstones contain most cherished memories of a long dead mage. By holding one in a closed fist user can relive stored memory. Originally made for personal use these small trinkets are now their maker's only legacy.
Isuna's Cane: Magic Quarterstaff: This lengthy staff cultivates a fire within its shaft and can be used in two ways. The wielder can twist the two halves to ignite the staff, which can then be used as a bomb of sorts. The user is advised that, once triggered, the staff will explode within seconds. If instead the user wishes to retain the staff, small bursts of energy can be spouted from the tip.
Barrel of Bubbling Brew: Alcohol: This large wooden keg is bound with leather straps for easy transportation. The barrel is filled with a wonderful dwarven ale that seems to create its own endless effervescence. When one drinks the bubbling brew they begin to feel lighter than air for a few moments and may even leave the ground until the gas is expelled (through one exit or another). The barrel itself is weighted down with rocks as to not fly away, but still feels as light as a feather even when full.
Dead Sprite in a Bottle: Magical Artifact: If a Character dies with this on their person their soul will be transported into the dead sprite giving it life and the consciousness of the dead character. There is no reason to suspect this item has this quality, and no one knows quite why it works. Some say a Link is formed between the person and the sprite. Additionally the bottle will not open until the sprite is infused with life, even if they Try force.
Metal Blade: Throwing Weapon: A black gem on the back of a glove. Flicking the wrist creates a vicious-looking metal disk lined with razor-sharp teeth. When thrown, deals 1d8 damage plus strength. Blade gains +1 to hit every five levels.
Leaf Shield: Defensive Weapon: A small green gem affixed to a bracelet. On activation, a cloak of swirling leaves surrounds the wielder, granting +5 to AC. The user cannot attack or move while the shield is active. The shield can be deactivated, or the mass of leaves can be ejected to fly off in any direction, dealing 1d6 damage to whatever it hits. Once thrown or deactivated, shield cannot be reactivated for 1d4 rounds.
Atomic Fire: Chargeable Weapon: A red gem set in the palm of a glove. The gem can be charged via concentration, up to 5 rounds. When discharged, shoots a fireball in a straight line. Fireball diameter is 1 ft per round charged, and deals 1d6 damage per round of charge. Dissipates when it hits an enemy.
Orb of Eroticism: Better than Nothing Magical Item: The creator of the Orb is lost to history, but the Orb has turned up seemingly at random in various times and places. Most owners won't admit to owning it due to it's dubious moral nature, but all enjoy it. Touching the orb inspires lust in the toucher - first a small sensation growing stronger the longer you hold it. Eventually, your urges become unignorable, and the consequences can be...interesting.
Tiny Tentacle Plant: Better than Nothing Magical Item: The Tiny Tentacle Plant is a miniature potted plant that has been magically enhanced - it eats magical items, or fragments thereof. It never seems to get bigger than about six inches high, and about 6 tentacles in size, loves direct sunlight but scorches in the heat - perfect for the windowsill in an adventurer's bedroom.
Lever of Vecna: Better than Nothing Magical Item: A large enchanted crowbar, for opening incredibly large drink containers. Even mentioning it to the priesthood or followers of Vecna is enough to get you murdered on the spot.
Goblet of Natural Corruption: Better than Nothing Magical Item: Similar to a goblet of endless water, this container never empties and must be kept tightly sealed. However, the purity of the water inside has been corrupted. Rather than clean drinking water, the goblet produces a thick blue goo that drives plants into a wild, dangerous form. When allowed to pour its contents on any sort of natural flora, it will corrupt the area at 1d4 square feet/round.
Delver's Cask: Booze: This oak cask, with silver banding, has a simple engraving of \"Delver\" on it. There is a simple wooden cork at the top that never rots. Whenver the cork is pulled after being plugged for an entire night, the cask will be filled with ale. After the cask is fully drained, it disappears, reappearing at least a hundred miles away.
Trick Rope: Rope: This twenty foot length of rope is made of a material that is wholly unfamiliar to the casual observer. It is extremely light, weighing only a quarter of what a similar length of hemp rope would weigh. The rope functions just as normal rope, but when the words \"Arath a'Dar\" are spoken, the end will form into a perfect lasso.
Splintering Staff: Cursed Staff: This splintered staff, slightly over six feet long, is straight except for a slight knot at the top. Anyone that holds it for more than one hour will find that they have a splinter in their hand. The splinter immediately burrows beneath the skin, causing intense pain, and will work its way up the victim's arm and toward the heart. Unless the victim has had a Remove Curse spell cast on them within three hours, they will die when the splinter pierces their heart.
Blue Silver: Magical Decor: A bluish-tinted platter and a small, white cloth. On observing the platter is blue ceramic, but any divining done upon it will reveal that it's actually a rare form of silver that is tinted blue. Whenever the single seed of any single fruit or vegetable are placed on the plate, covered by the cloth, and left alone over night, the next morning, the actual fruit or vegetable will have taken the seed's place.
The Little Tome of Serenity (nonmagical): calm emotions: The Little Tome of Serenity appears to be a small paper-bound book with ornate scrollery with the name \"Little Tome of Serenity\" written in slow sweeping strokes. Looking at the Little Tome of Serenity instantly causes a subtle feeling of calmness to come over the observer. The book can be opened and a passage read from its list of calming wisdom causing all who hear the words to make a DC 5 wisdom save of stop what they are doing and smile gently for 1d6 rounds.
The History of Screaming (nonmagical): Book/Information: This truly dull sounding book is an in-depth book on the history of screaming as researched by little-known half-orc linguist Grimf Thurd. It is a truly dry read and takes 40 hours to complete regardless of intelligence level. When/if the reader does complete the book, they are imbued with the knowledge and understanding of the raised voice, giving them a +1 to all vocal-based checks involving yelling or whispering.
This Thing (magical): Trash/Tool: This Thing appears to be two purple hemispheres with a copper colored pipe coming out at an angle from off-center of one hemisphere. Nothing is initially known about This Thing, but on a DC 25 inteligence check, it can be determined that when the two purple hemispheres are rotated against each other, a small flame suitable for lighting smoking apparatuses springs out of the copper pipe until the hemispheres are rotated back. This Thing never runs out of fuel.
Very Special Bottle of Wine (nonmagical): Treasure/Alcohol: This is a very special bottle of wine which the owner originally intended to deliver to a very important person. This bottle of wine looks completely ordinary and nondescript. It is easily mistaken for a not very special bottle of wine. Those who consume this bottle must make a DC 15 wisdom check in order to avoid trying to refill this bottle with other ingredients in an attempt to placate the bottle's original owner by replacing what they drank.
Good Summer Reading Material (nonmagical): Book: This book is perfect reading material for a vacation. It has trash, but different kinds of trash. It has social themes, believable characters, suspense, and thrills. It's about a temporary worker who is 29 and who can't get a boyfriend, and has only 12 days to stop a war with The Elder Dragons.
Chunky Soup (nonmagical): Food: A bowl of chunky chunks. This hearty meal sustains for an entire day in just one cup of soup!
A Numbered Tea Kettle (nonmagical): Trash: This looks like an ordinary tea kettle save for a large number on the side.
Leather Breastplate (magical) (cursed): Armor: This breastplate appears to be a normal leather breastplate except for the fact that it is extremely comfortable. It feels like a pair of comforting hands across your chest. After 6 hours of continual wearing, this breastplate mysteriously catches on fire, dealing 1d10 fire damage to the wearer.
The Orb of Longevity (magical): Orb: This orb, when told about a person's life and dietary habits predicts that persons age of death. The orb knows if the user is lying and will only speak about someone to that someone.
Cloak of Masculine Facade (nonmagical): Cloak: This very masculine cloak provides the wearer advantage on all non-lethal team based competition checks while worn. However, it also imposes disadvantage on all other interactions. This item requires attunement/disattunement periods of 2 hours.
Moss's Everfilling Bag of Popcorn (magical): Food: Prior to interesting events, this bag mysteriously fills with fresh popcorn for all to enjoy!
Stress Detector (magical): Tool: This compass-like device has a red needle inside of a glass case which, when held in the palm of the hand, points to numbers 1-20 to indicate the stress level of the holder.
A Racist Torch (magical): Tool: This torch can only be lit by Humans.
Indestructible Dinnerware: Tool: This collection of porcelain plates is indestructible unless dropped or otherwise brought into contact with the ground at which point they catch fire and burn as a piece of wood of that same size.
Jaberwocky (nonmagical): Trash: Win. Innovate. Redefine. New Definition. Faster than a Swallow. More powerful than... another swallow! More magnificent then a fish, or a whale. Have you heard about this? Everyone is talking about it. It's the next biggest thing. It will revolutionize the way you live. What is it? Jaberwocky.
Healing Kit (nonmagical)(cursed): Tool: This bandage, when applied to the wearer gives a +5 foot bonus to movement speed, and advantage on all dexterity checks for a duration of 12 hours. Afterward, the character takes three levels of exhaustion.
Rune Stones of Tempus: Twelve large standing stones: These stones when gather together on a mountain, and embiddened with the right incantation, will summon a wraith of the old God of Storms. This God was powerful during the reign of the Giant Empires, and is not a mere shadow of himself. Once they are gathered one of three things will happen: 1) The God Spirit will tell you your future, or grant you a Wish. 2) The God Spirit will go forth and destroy your enemies. 3) The God Spirit will turn on you in an attempt to destroy you. (It will be a Greater Lightning Elemental or the like) Once whatever conclusion has happened, a great thunderclap will sound with a bolt of lightning striking each standing stone. They will then disappear to be scattered across the earth again.
Misses Miggins Healing Hot Pies: Food/Potion: Misses Miggins is a very old and very skilled baker and alchemist. She many years ago combined her hot cherry or meat pies with her excellently brewed healing potions. Its perfect for the hungry hero, looking more then to guzzle a viscous liquid.
The Humble Blade: Paladin Greatsword: The Humble Blade appears to be a very old, rusted, pitted and nicked greatsword, with a hilt of tattered dry leather. Upon picking up the blade any equipment or clothes you have on your person will also appear ragged and old, and your appearance will also begin to slowly become more tattered. It is however a +2 Greatsword that when used by a Paladin deals 1d12 Radiant damage with every hit. This only works for a paladin who does not care for their appearance, only for the work they must do for their god.
Eldwizor's Special Pan Flute: Musical Instrument: Once per day, the pan flute's bearer may play a special, short melody on the pan flute. Doing so summons a quartet of imps that appear in a puff of smoke within ten feet, standing on an assortment of small wooden crates. They begin to play groovy (though slightly creaky) music using their instruments: a pan flute, two lutes and a hand drum. The music lasts for five minutes, after which the imps disappear with their crates in a puff of smoke.
Faerie Torch: wondrous item (torch): This torch is alit with a blue, green, or violet flame. The flame sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius, and it creates no heat and doesn't use oxygen. This flame can be covered or hidden, but not smothered or quenched. Anyone openly holding this torch cannot benefit from being invisible.
Behir Blade: Weapon - Greatsword: A greatsword that hates dragons and loves to kill them. This blade will compel a wielder to slay any dragon and gives them bonus damage on damage rolls. A small amount of sentience nudges wielders in the general direction of the nearest dragon regardless of color, type, or alignment.
Tasha's Gloves of Laughter: Cursed Magical Item: These exquisitely-made jade green gloves are stylish enough for males or females, and subtly resize themselves to whoever is foolish enough to pick them up. Upon putting both gloves on, the wearer begins to laugh uncontrollably and must make a Will save DC 18 to stop long enough to pull the gloves off again. If they continue laughing for more rounds than their CON bonus, they begin to suffocate, yet continue laughing. Treat as though they were drowning.
The Lover's Gem: Gems: A simple rose colored gem that shines brighter the closer you get to your soulmate.
Randural's Finger: Weapons: The finger of an ancient and evil archwizard/emperor of a lost civilization. When used as a spelcasting focus changes the damage type of the spell to necrotic
Belt Buckle of the Battalion: Better than Nothing Magical Items: A belt buckle shaped like a Rams head, when metal touches the belt buckle the area around it echoes with the sound of a thousand swords being unsheathed
Switching Stones: Better than Nothing Magical Items: Two matching stones, riverbed smooth with a hole in the center, one green the other red. When both stones have breath blown through the center hole at the exact same time, the two blowers switch places instantaneously.
Compass Of Usefulness: Better than Nothing Magical Items: Like a regular compass, except with multiple needles each pointing toward different useful things, such as north, the nearest source of fresh water, the strongest nearby evil aura, nearest large concentration of gold, nearest civilization (exact definition of civilization may vary by user), and nearest storm. Needles lengthen and shorten as the object gets closer or further away.
The Truth: Magical Weapon: A +2 Longsword. Matte grey steel, plain guard and a cloudy white gem on the pommel. Can instantly dispel illusions with a melee touch attack and the pommel glows when being lied to.
+4 Vampiric Keen Wounding Flaming Heavy Crossbow: Gag: When fired, all it does is unfurl a tiny flag that says THWANG.
Weapon Blacking: Gag: Can permanently make a weapon an intimidating black
Bracers of Shiv: Weapon: Two leather bracers, with scabbards attached holding a total of 6, small metal daggers. When an enemy is stabbed by a dagger, the user leaves the dagger in the body. For every dagger added to the victims body, the damage goes up 1 die. (d6,d8,d10,d12,d20). A victim can remove a dagger with a DC10 strength check and take 1d4 damage.
Canteen of Party: Type of Treasure: A canteen that upgrades its contents, when water is poured in a random fruit juice pours out, juice in ale out, ale>wine>vodka>rum>Whiskey>Dwarven Stout> poison> water.
Troll Fist Hammer: Weapon: A stone Troll hand attached to a 3' wooden stave. Obeys Commands: Grabbit, Leggo, Fist.
Blanket of Fire: Better then Nothing Magical Item: A heavy wool blanket that unfurls to a roaring campfire, roll it up to extinguish.
Hearthstone: Better then Nothing Magical Item: A custom of Fharlanghan clerics, a white porous stone that is kept in the middle of each nights campfire. If used for 3 consecutive nights, the stone will begin to keep undead away while in the fire.
Ever Billowing Cloak: Better then Nothing Magical Item: A cloak that always billows dramatically
Boots of the Island: Magical Item: Supple leather boots, stained with salt. When the wearer steps onto water a 5' diameter island of sand appears at his feet. Supporting her above the water.
The Cat Came Back: Weapon: A great wizards, before her death, placed her former familiar Harley's mind in a clockwork cat. Harley is aloof and lazy like most cats, but he will follow whoever holds his mouse squeaky toy. Harley looks like a black cat at a quick glance but closer inspection shows he is metallic and covered in black soot. Once, a day the owner of the squeaky mouse can send Harley at a foe, and with one squeak of the mouse, Harley will detonate as a Fireball spell dealing 1d6 . But Harley doesn't always listen; percentile die 01- 15 Harley looks at you with a disdainful expression, 16-30 Harley comes to you and rubs against your leg, 31-45 Harley wanders to a random spot , 46-60 Harley takes his time and approaches your target next round, 61-75 Harley bounds to an enemy of his choosing, 76-90 Harley goes right to your target and rubs against its leg, 91-100 Harley immediately dashes to the most tactically sound position. The next morning Harley will reappear somewhere near you, sleeping on a tree branch , batting insects near your campsite, or curled up on your chest when you wake up.
Ever Faithful Dragon: Better Then Nothing Magical Item: A small statuette of a red dragon, when it's tail is held down it breathes a small continuous flame.
Book of Holding: Magical Item: A thick leather bound book titled \" An In Depth Study of the Whole Shebang: Foreward by They\". When another book is placed on top of this one it will slowly sink into the tome, reopening the book and reciting the title will fill the book of holding with that books contents. Close the book and name another title and those pages can the be retrieved.
The Mariner's Joy: Ship in a bottle: This full-sized boat fit for sailing across the seas is able to be shrunk and put in a bottle with the correct incantation. When out of the bottle, the ship is a large caravel with a black sea serpent on it's two white sails.
Demon's Fury: Longsword: The sword of a legendary paladin who fell from grace and who made a dark pact with a demon seeking to be freed. After the fallen paladin was killed, her sword was taken by a family member for safekeeping, for an old prophecy tells that this demon will rise again, and another member of the family will right the wrongs of their ancestor wielding this blade.
The Dark Tome: Old book: This old book was found by an adventurer in a ruined temple in the jungle, who, finding the book unreadable, sold it to an antiquities dealer. No one has yet been able to identify the text, though several have tried, for the script is of the couatls of old. The book is thick, with a simple cover of black leather, which is where the book's name comes from.
Frostbringer: Long staff: This staff is oddly shaped, made from what appears to be snow-white wood. A blood red leather handle is wound around it, where the wielder is meant to hold it. This is the weapon of the Prince of Frost, and many of the archfey's powers have been absorbed by the staff.
A polished globe of sand quartz: Silvery crystal: Sand quartz is a mysterious crystal that is mined in the desert. There are stories of people being able to communicate through different globes of sand quartz, but mostly, people just use the opaque silvery gem as a nice-looking object.
Ghelki: Coin: A small but valuable black iron coin used by a fallen empire. The ghelki has recently been put in use by the orc tribes who have taken over the empire's former lands.
Elixir of Immorality: Potion, consumable: When ingested, this liquid causes one's alignment to shift to Evil (the L/C axis is unaffected) for the next 1d6x10 minutes.
Handbook of Recursion: Book: This strange tome describes a dice-based game in which the players describe their actions and roll dice to determine the outcome. It sounds like many an adventure could be had with this curious hobby.
Ring of Chafing: Ring, cursed: In addition to whatever other properties this ring may have, it also causes an intensely uncomfortable loss of skin beneath it. After 1d6 hours of wearing, the effect reaches a noticeable point, and all attacks made with that hand, or spells cast using somatic components, have a -1 modifier.
Forkroot: Poison: This odd herb has a bothersome effect on magic users. When ingested, generally through an infusion in a drink, it prevents spellcasting for the next 3d10 minutes, or until the target succeeds a Constitution (or equivalent) saving throw.
Rust Monster Powder: Creature Bits: This powder comes from the crushed exoskeleton of the rust monster. It can be applied to non-metallic weapons to corrode the armor or weapons of the wielder's enemies.
Bitter Knot: Ring: A ring carved from a knot in the root of a long-dead tree. It is charred-looking and rough to the touch. The wearer becomes immune to any poisons or diseases taken through the mouth, but all food and drink tastes like ash.
Theophon, Bellringer of the Gods: Weapons: A large mallet with brass caps on the striking ends of the head. When struck against the ground, it produces a deafening clamor and a shockwave that can knock those nearby off their feet.
King Prochamos and the Snails: Book: King Prochamos and the Snails is a poem describing a fictional king's disastrous campaign to rid his garden of snails. The poem is meant to be taken as a political allegory for the previous king's ineffectual attempt to extradite a particular group of people.
Hat of the Creator's Exorcism: Better than Nothing Magical Items: A hat both tall and... gaudy. Anyone wearing the hat will look so garish that they will be asked to leave whatever social event they are attending. At the very least, the host will accept any explanation they give for their departure.
Grey Diadem: Gems: Grey Diadems are a peculiar form of spinel that forms around a round stone. When removed from the other stone, the Spinel forms a disk with raised edges and (often) a hole in the center, which bears some small resemblance to a crown.
Gravedigger's Lamp: Magic Item: The glass around the lamp is cloudy and cracked, and any candle placed inside gives only a pitifully weak glow. However, if the lantern is placed somewhere which rarely sees natural light, such as a cave or crypt, the candle will start to burn low. As it burns out, everyone present gently falls asleep. They awaken in the Shadowfell. Also, everyone bathed in the lantern's light while in Shadowfell seems as if they belong and automatically pass Disguise (but not Impersonation) checks.
Malcolm's Dagger: Weapon: If you write an oath with blood spilled by this dagger, the person who the blood belongs to must fulfill the oath or die.
Great Axe of the Betrayed: Magical Weapon: Ummm guys.... I got carried away. This axe is always covered with tacky almost dried blood. Even when cleaned the blood always returns. The axe itself has a bad history of betrayal and vengeance which lead to it gaining powers. The axe was originally forged by an elven smith living in a human city along with other weapons. The smith was to forge \"100 pounds of good steel\" to pay off his gambling debt. The holder of said debt found many \"problems\" with the expertly crafted steel and kept the elf in servitude for months after the debt was paid. The next instance of betrayal was against the man holding the debt, though he may have deserved it the betrayer had no way of knowing that. A half elf merchant and his men bought the steel in bulk all of the elves work after the forgemaster had been freed. They paid in enchanted copper coins, The holder of the dept was hanged when he paid his taxes in fake gold coins. The Half elf and his men traveled south hoping to trade their ill gotten gains and found the road had been blocked by a tribe of gnolls. A gnome and his band offered to help but only if he got half payment now and the other half when the job was done. This did not end well for the half elf whom paid in a crate of his wares. The gnome returned and said the road was safe and his men would guard the caravan until it reached the town past the plains. He was lying of course and had given the gnolls the crate of weapons in exchange for their help slaughtering the half elf and his men. The gnolls promised the gnome the wealth in exchange for the weapons. They lied too. The gnolls left the scene with all of it including the weapon that would later be called the Axe of the Betrayed. The gnolls lived in a strict matriarchy and the gnoll whom acquired the axe was the brother of the reigning matriarch. Given only select females were allowed to breed any offspring from any non sanctioned unions would be eliminated. A warrior female and the brother to the chief had one such union. He promised to keep the child safe. His weak will saw that the matriarch found out about the child and forced her brother to accompany her as she tracked the mother down. She ran for days but eventually the matriarch and her pathetic sibling caught up with her. On the rocky plains she gave her child to a band of adventurers moments before the Axe of the Betrayed was thrown into her back by her former lover. She died from the wound but not before seeing the confused half orc hand her child over to the matriarch. She watched as it was killed. The axe was left in her back but she would not stay dead. She arose as a Revenant the next night and buried her pup properly. Using her new undead powers the gnoll mother destroyed her former tribe and tracked the band of adventurers in the southern swamps. She was destroyed and her axe taken. Though she still seeks vengeance the Axe has found new owners. The axe itself is magical now and where as it was used to cause great suffering and betrayal the powers that inhabit it seek to right wrongs instead. The axe becomes a +1 weapon against any foe who has attacked a companion of its wielder. This bonus also is gained if the wielder has seen the target harm an innocent. The axe deals 2d12 instead of 1d12 if a companion is reduced to 0 hit points but only on the wielders next turn and on the target causing the damage. (once per turn) If the wielder is seeking to bring justice to a betrayer the axes power truly shines. If the wielder can recount aloud the betrayal the target has caused in combat the next hit the axe lands on the target is automatically a critical.
Necromancer's Hand: Magic Ring: A simple ring, found on a dismembered, rotting hand in the mud somewhere. While worn, user can cast Mage Hand as a cantrip, but it takes two actions to do so. Also, after every use, the user's hand and arm become rotten and skeletal (including armor and clothing), like the arm of undead. The effect eventually fades, but it takes longer and longer each time. Use this too much, and it'll spread to the rest of the body. If it reaches the body, the bearer dies and becomes undead (but still sentient!)
Backhand Striker: Longsword: This longsword has been crafted with a short blade on the end of the pommel. When the wielder makes a successful attack with the longsword, they may use a bonus action to attack with the pommel (Dex+Prof to hit, 1d4 + Dex damage)
Boots of Tripping: Boots: The wearer can choose to use an opportunity attack to trip the enemy by a Dexterity contest. The wearer has advantage on the roll. If the target trips, it falls prone and takes 1d6 falling damage
Spiteful Spear: Weapon: This wickedly sharp spear has a shaft of dark grey metal with an unpleasant oily sheen. The stuff of shadows constantly coalesces and drips from the tip of the spear. If the spear even scratches an enemy, this dark essence can be used to form a necromantic link between the wielder and the victim. Once per long rest, the wielder of this weapon may activate its special property after successfully striking a target with the spear. Until the end of the encounter, whenever the wielder of the spiteful spear takes damage the target also takes 2 points of damage. This damage is of the same damage type as the attack on the wielder.
Sazaran's Spice Rack: Tools / Supplies: A small wooden rack that, curiously, only has room for one jar. The jar that comes with this rack is empty. Away from the rack the jar is completely ordinary, it is merely a receptacle for the magic of the rack. To use the power of the spice rack, the lid of the jar must be removed and any spice or edible herb named. The jar immediately fills with the named flavouring. The contents are enough to flavour a single meal for up to ten people. Naming a second spice or herb replaces the contents. Spices and herbs already named can be re-summoned but the amount in the jar will be reduced by the amount previously used. The capacity of the jar for each spice or herb refills after a long rest. No matter the amount used, no flavouring created by the spice rack has the capacity to poison, even if it normally would when ingested in large doses. The spice rack simply cannot create any herb which is inedible. A person may be attuned to this item; if so attuned they can use the spice rack for its real purpose: effectively, an innocuous poisoner's kit. The attuned rack will happily create poisonous herbs for its owner, and any edible herb that is actually poisonous in high doses is now no longer safe when ingested in large amounts.
Superabundant Spice Rack: Supplies: The original magical spice rack used by Sazaran the Assassin was much admired by a number of people who had no idea of its true purpose, and it inspired imitations. This spice rack functions similarly to Sazaran's Spice Rack, but has no hidden purpose. It is exactly as it seems, and cannot be attuned to create poisons.
Shortrope's quick fingers: Armour: These black leather gloves give the wearer advantage on all lock picking attempts. As soon as the character dons the gloves, they emit a faint but high pitched hum. This hum grows louder the longer the user goes without taking them off.
Helm of Suicidal Tendencies: Cursed magical helm: The helm is made of black iron with three rubies inset on the inside of the helm. These rubies glow occasionally, one for each attempt the helm will make on the wearer?s life. At random the helm will attempt to dominate the wearer into a fatal circumstances.
Staff of Protective Shell: Magical quarterstaff: A staff that allows the wielder a few seconds of invulnerability. It is easily mistakable as an ordinary walking stick ? made of finished golden oak wood, it has a few carvings inset along its length and a gnarled knot at the top
Basilisk Eye: Creature Bits: A Basilisk's eye can be stolen or looted from a live Basilisk. Everone who looks into the eye needs to make a DC 13 Constitution check. If the check is failed, the person is turned to stone.
Grazodim's Necklace: Cursed Artifact: Grazodim was a greedy man during his life. His necklace was his prize which he kept around his neck until his grave. The necklace itself refused to stay put as it took on the life and greed of it's former master. Anyone who wears the necklace will be able to communicate with it. It will tell the character where to find gold using (Wisdom) Perception checks. It won't rest until it has obtained new gold every day. If the wearer refuses, the necklace will choke the character until it's dead and use it's body to move around, looking for a new wearer or new gold. It can be removed with a Remove Curse spell.
The Sword of Bawking: Magical Weapon: The Sword of Bawking is best presented among many seemingly normal chickens. It begins as a simple chicken that appears nothing more than dinner. However, when it senses danger for the person who last fed it, it hops up and transforms into a powerful sword. Its head becomes the pommel, its neck the grip, its wings the guard, and its legs fuse to become the long blade. It functions as a (insert enchantment level) longsword until all the danger is dispelled, at which point it turns into a normal chicken once more and acts as if nothing ever happened. If bred with another of its species, it's chicks will transform into daggers in the same manner.
Bloody Cultist Coinage: Currency: A number of shimmering rose-gold disks about an inch in diameter, and thicker than an average coin. They are stamped with complex geometric patterns, the grooves of which are stained with blood.
Pilgirm's Boots: Better than nothing magical item: These beautiful calf-skin boots were crafted by a leatherworker named Corneli for his love Adele, to aid her in her lengthy pilgrimage to The Holy Rock. For many weeks on end he worked, weaving subtle magic between and among his stitches. Once the shining brass buckles are secured, the wearer of these boots will never tire from traveling on foot. The boots do not dirty from the dust of the road, nor do they ever seem to wear out. However, before he gave the boots to Adele, Corneli's jealous rival, the Enchanter Aneu, cursed them with a dread bewitchment. Whenever the wearer attempts to move at a faster pace than a walk, the buckles will come unclasped, causing them to stumble and fall. Corneli - who knew nothing of the curse - gave the boots to Adele on the day of her departure. The two lovers took a bit too long saying their goodbyes, and so she was forced to hurry to catch up with the other pilgrims. As she ran across the Red River Bridge, Aneu's enchantmet took effect, and she fell off into the water and drowned. Corneli was heartbroken, and buried Adele's body by the bridge where she died. He never forgave himself for what he thought was his own failure. He threw the boots into the river, and vowed to never work magic ever again.
A Jar of Dirt: Better than Nothing Magical Item: A glass jar that is always filled with dirt. No matter how much is removed or poured out, the jar does not empty. The bottom is opaque, and serves as a small one-way gate to the elemental plane of earth, from where the dirt comes. If the jar is damaged, it becomes simply a normal glass jar. The dirt pours out (with the jar upended) at approximately 0.5 liters of per second under standard conditions. I've got a jar of diiirrt, I've got a jar of diiirrt, I've got a jar of diiirrt, and guess what's inside it! [More dirt]. The composition of the dirt (along with texture, color, etc) is of the DM's choosing.
Sulfuric Gecko Crest: Creature Bits: Highly prized for their purity, these crystals of sulphur harvested from their ferocious, fire breathing former owner are sought after mainly by gunsmiths and alchemists. While beautiful, the crystals' unsavory smell makes them a poor display piece.
Wyvern Tooth: Creature Bits: Rare and valuable, if harvested properly these sharp, flame resistant teeth make for exceptionally deadly arrows and bolts that allow even a shortbow to pierce a Knight's plate. Treasured in areas where Salamanders are a threat to the populace.
Dragon Powder: Creature Bits: In spite of its name, this highly combustible powder is not harvested from dragons, but rather several species of fire breathing wyverns. Consisting of rapidly decayed poison as was only recently discovered through research into the evolution of these species, the powder is excreted through the mouth, where the creature's saliva protects it from the adverse effects. When kept most, the outer layer of a ball of the powder will become crusted and hard. When consequently broken open against a solid surface, the resulting explosion created by the expanding and combusting powder will deal mainly force damage to all in the area. Due to the difficulty of harvesting and storing the powder safely the select few that purchase it do so at a high price. While unconfirmed, several wizards have stated that using the powder as the material component for the \"fireball\" spell is not only possible, but also greatly enhances it's effects.
Tin Whistle of Cat Summoning: Better than Nothing Magical Item: A rather ordinary looking whistle made of tin that children are often seen playing. However, blowing this whistle causes 1d4 cats to appear from just out of view, which then dart away and disappear after 1 minute
Mathgar's Stick: magic item: A six inch stick from an oak tree with the bark removed, highly polished and marked with Mathgar's rune of identification. Can be made to grow up to ten feet tall, with a diameter equal to length to a maximum diameter of six inches. The stick stays at that length for 8 hours unless collapsed by the person who extended it. The stick can only grow to whole number lengths, from 1-10 foot. Attempting to grow half sizes requires a dc 10 check with no modifiers. Can be used once per day, recharges at dawn. Can be made to grow larger than 10' but with increasing difficulty at dm's discretion. No matter what size it is, if used as a weapon only ever deals 1hp damage as it is still a stick. If the stick is broken it breaks with a large crack that will deafen anyone within ten feet for 1d4 rounds, and is thereafter rendered useless as anything other than a broken stick. If burnt the stick releases a purple flame.
Mathgar's Wooden Ring: Magic Ring: Requires attunement. A polished wooden ring marked with Mathgar's identifying rune. Grants the user advantage on all tree related difficulty checks and saves, eg jumping out of the way of falling trees, climbing trees, grabbing a branch when falling, retaining balance when fighting in a tree, hiding in a tree. If climbing a tree requires no dc check then the users climb speed is double.
Mathgar's Piece of Bark: Magic Item: Requires attunement. A circular piece of bark, about an inch in diameter, well polished and varnished, marked on the back with Mathgar's identifying rune. Has a pin on the back to allow it to be worn. Grants the user the ability to cast Barkskin on self once per day, recharges at dawn.
Mathgar's Lucky Leaf: Better Than Nothing Magical Item: A green leaf, mystically preserved, that never dries. Protects the holder from lice, killing all lice that come into contact with the bearer's skin or clothing while worn.
Mathgar's Charcoal: Better Than Nothing Magical Item: A piece of charcoal that when placed in a cooking fire infuses the food with exquisite flavour.
Miphon's Feather: Better Than Nothing Magical Item: The wizard Miphon was renowned for his command of the animal world and for his pea green hat with a feather in it. This feather, when worn in a hat, protects the character from bird droppings.
Staff of the Time Magus: Powerful Magical Item: This oak staff clutches a sapphire at its tip and is otherwise a perfectly normal, if knobbled and twisted, staff. It contains 2d6 charges, one of which may be expended as a bonus action to weave fates together. When a charge is used after casting a spell that requires a saving throw with the staff as an arcane focus all forms of advantage are cancelled and all targets have disadvantage on their saving throw. Legendary Resistance may still be used. If all charges on the staff are expended then it shatters and it is destroyed at all points in its timeline, which is convoluted and strange, it reforms three months later at all points along its timeline. Due to the convoluted nature of time with the staff there may be multiple versions of the staff in existence at the same time, which will instantly shatter if touched together. In order to permanently destroy the staff some way must be found to seclude two of them from the stream of time and then touch them together
This will mark the end of the timeline of the staff and it may not exist after that point.
Forestwalk Boots: Magic Item - Boots: Inspired by the 'landwalk' abilities in Magic: the Gathering, that allow creatures to move through specific terrain unimpeded or unseen. Soft leather, covered with dry grass. Increase speed by ten feet when outside and not slowed by terrain. When obscured by moderate foliage, wearer may use their Action to become invisible until they make an attack, cast a spell, or are in an area of no foliage. Worn leather, sand-covered and salt-stained. Create patches of sand beneath the surface of deep water able to support the wearer's weight. Wearer may wade across any amount of deep water as though through difficult terrain, the sand sinking again after them. Unidentifiable leather, heavily water damaged. When in shallow water, grant advantage on Athletics or Acrobatics checks to keep footing, wearer does not suffer movement penalties from terrain, and wearer may Disengage or Hide as a Bonus Action on their turn. Blackened leather, caked with dried mud. Grant advantage on Athletics or Acrobatics checks to keep footing on rock, and wearer does not suffer movement penalties from rocky terrain. Wearer gains a climb speed on rock equal to their normal movement. Tough leather, scuffed and covered with underbrush. Grant advantage on Athletics checks to climb plants. Wearer may use adjacent tree branches to move at full speed as long as they begin and end their movement on branches able to support their weight.