A single pubic hair from a nymph.
A string of firecrackers.
An ancient bronze coin (1/2 CP ). The tyrant on it looks exactly like you.
A deck of dirty playing cards. 
A link of chain from a Valkyrie's chain mail bikini.
A pinch of lich dust in a tiny batskin pouch.
A genie's veil. 
1d20 noxious drow cigarettes in a little tin coffin.
The holy book of a dead god.
An apple from a dryad's garden.
Gold from a dragon's horde, fused into a blob by his heat & weight (1d6 GP). 
A Ceramic Dish with a small rune etched into the surface
Chunk of amber, 1\" tall prehistoric proto-faerie trapped inside.
Bookmark made from the skin of an infamous assassin. 
A hen's tooth.
A single scale from a mermaid's tail.
Flask of liquid: Vinegar by day, turns into goblin wine by night.
25mm lead figure of yourself. 
White crayon and 1d6 weird dice.
Piece of goblin chalk -markings last one week & can only be seen by those w/ darkvision.
Old Flask of Ancient Holy Water
Little plastic toy rust monster. 
Vial of unicorn's milk.
Feather from a pegasus.
A failed adventurer's suicide note. \"I should have died down there with the others...\"
Exquisite flute made from a human thigh bone.
Little plastic toy bullette.
Little plastic toy owlbear (With \"Moe\" haircut).
Piece of weird fruit from a sunless goblin orchard deep underground.
A miniature, tame mimic
A carved marble elephant
A small round cactus with two eyes
A pocket book of dwarven poetry
1d10x10 ft of Silver Rope
A bronze box containing a tiny wooden owl
A solid blue metal sphere, one inch in diameter, with three parallel grooves around the circumference
A pouch containing ten dried peas
A ceramic puzzle cube, with each face divided into four independently rotating squares enamelled with astronomical signs
A square of bear-beetle leather, a creature unique to the misty woods of Cix
A sheet of vellum on which is crudely painted a herbal plant that you have yet to identify
A petrified frog
A twenty-sided die
A cut yellow chrysanthemum that never dies
A palm-sized iron cage: the door doesn't shut properly, as the tiny lock was broken from the inside
A blob of grey goo, slippy but safe to touch, kept in a ceramic pot
A dried sky lily, from the tip of the Godshead, an impossibly high mountain.
A glowing blue-green line, six inches long, but with no discernable radius
A pretty conch shell
A scrap of paper on which is written, in Goblin, \"My dearest Bess,\"
A keychain holding the head of a broken key
An echo pearl from the depths of the Vibration Lake
A toy crossbow
Lip balm
A fossil of an extinct many-limbed critter
A brass prosthetic nose
A corkscrew
A dried poison gland of a jaggedfish
A bronze gear on which is etched the word \"Moon\"
A map of a labyrinth, on which is pencilled a line that starts at the centre but fails to connect to the entrance
A cube of ice that never melts
A square of ironsilk sewn by the geargrubs of ancient Siclari
An ivory knitting needle
A peacock feather
A travel set of paints: someone has used up all the black
A wig of short platinum-blonde hair
A child's charm bracelet
A small bar of orichalcum, a metal only mentioned in ancient literature
A deed to a ruined tower
An invitation to a formal ball to be held in two years time
A smoking pipe carved from granite
A vial of scented oil
A preserved basilisk eye
A torn page on which is written \"Death! / Plop. / The barges down in the river flop. / Flop, plop. / Above, beneath\"
An intricate knot that nobody seems to know how to tie or untie – sailors believe it to be bad luck
Pages ripped out of an accounting journal of a local merchant
A ring with a poison reservoir for slipping into drinks and a tiny razor edge for cutting purse-strings
A glass globe of swirling green goop, no openings
A bundle of ragged \"treasure maps\" drawn by inventive local children
A sliver from a spear said to have pierced the armpit of a saint
A portfolio of pressed flowers
A small handbook of foreign coins, for travelers to identify denominations
A alightly out of date guidebook to foreign inns, taverns, and transportation
Six useless wooden tokens previously issued by a traitor-prince as currency
Two false fingernails painted with mysterious symbols
A set of cosmetic tools for cleaning the ears
A harmless stage dagger with retracting blade and blood-compartment
A floating glass orb that follows you around and makes whirring sounds
A goblin-made key that can lock any door, but unlock none
A translucent coin, minted in an unknown land
A bronze ring engraved with dark symbols that was supposedly buried with a legendary necromancer long ago
A ring carved with the unfinished insignia to a defunct secret organization
A thimble on which is an enamel painting of a turtle
A puzzle box holding 10 fingernail clippings
A pair of badly worn hairdressing scissors
A wax hand shaped to hold a large cup
A measuring tape, marked in ink at 23 inches
A seashell that is silent when held up to your ear
A coprolite
One piece of unknown paper currency with no obvious denomination
A bootlace entwined with gold thread
A dented sherrif's badge
A tiny bubble level that is calibrated incorrectly
A belt buckle
A letter of complaint to a toy shop owner
A decorative leather stud
A penny whistle that plays the same note no matter which holes are covered
A ticket admitting an adult and child onto a thing called a \"semiotic tram\"
A small glass vial holding three eyelashes
A tub of putty
A leather shoe made for a dog
A doll head with no hair and poorly applied makeup
A pewter spork
Illustrated instructions on how to make a paper hat
A clear glass dish with four round notches around the outside edge
A wire circlet that bestows upon its wearer perfect posture
A small hand-sized box covered with numbered buttons
An empty whiskey tumbler that causes any liquid poured into it to become bourbon
A book of flumph grammar
A hunk of metal which appears to be several gears jammed together at unnatural and impossible angles: attempting to turn it causes it to emit a horrible shrieking sound
A crystal prism that refracts shadow instead of light
A smokeless and odorless candle
A flat disc of layered metal and prismatic glass with a hole in the centre
An ornate pewter tankard made without a bottom
A wooden device designed to be gripped in two hands; two levers protrude from the top, and two triggers from the underside
Two perfectly identical pine cones
A sponge that can absorb 60 gallons of ale (and only ale)
A pepper grinder containing an unlimited supply of pepper unless opened, at which point it becomes half empty
A poorly cultivated bonsai juniper in a glazed ceramic pot
An oval-shaped soapstone tablet inscribed with a short list of religious prohibitions
A wooden doll with a door that opens to reveal a slightly smaller, identical, doll; this one is empty, perhaps there are still smaller dolls that are missing?
A brightly-colored glove that walks around randomly for 1 minute on its own when placed on a hard,flat surface.
An opalescent square of silken fabric that ripples and sparkles when kissed.
A milky crystalline hemisphere that adheres powerfully to any exposed skin it touches for precisely 1hour.
A dull metallic cube that randomly changes the color of any skin it touches for 10 hours.
A featureless miniature humanoid that sits atop the hand when placed and decorates it with strangetraceries of ink.
A ring that makes the wearer’s finger nails take on multiple colors.
A disc that when flipped always lands on its edge.
A bead of glass or synth that glows faintly. but not enough to see or read by,
A sheet of white synth that always washes clean when submerged in water for an hour.
A cube of red metal that only ever stands on a corner.
A transparent blue object made of synth that, when placed into a liquid, will maintain thetemperature of the liquid for up to 1 day.
A hand glass that shows you what you look like from behind.
A metal teardrop that hums an ancient tune when bathed in starlight.
A fuzzy toy animal that seems to repel any dirt.
A hat that, when worn, makes the wearer look shorter or taller by up to 6 inches, apparently atrandom.
A yard (1m) long length of braided synth wire that rearranges itself into strange 3-dimensionalforms every hour.
A mask that displays a caricature of the wearer's face.
A tiny pot of shimmering synth that becomes pliable and rubbery at body temperature, returning to
original form and state upon cooling.
A strange set of cutlery shaped for alien hands.
A bizarre whistle that emits floating motes of color when blown.
A tube that changes the color of any liquid poured through it.
An orb of unknown material that orbits the head of the last person to touch it.
A ring of metal with strange symbols carved into that glow randomly.
A hat that changes the wearer's hair color when worn.
A pulsing seed pod that is always warm to the touch.
Screen that displays images of everyone you’ve ever met, in order, each time you pick it up.
Thick wristband that glows when Esoteries are used within 20 meters.
Bar of metal which constantly oozes a black, sticky, substance.
Small fur pouch with five pieces of tasty candy in it. Replenishes each evening.
Ceramic disk that speaks to you in a friendly voice whenever you’re in trouble. You have no way ofunderstanding the language, but it seems like it’s trying to help.
A transparent plate showing lines of symbols. Touching the edges of the plate in specific placesproduce more symbols.
A synth stylus which will draw lines on any surface. The lines remain until either the stylus goesfurther than short range from the writing, or until nightfall, whichever comes first.
An odd little brush which carefully cleans any surface it is applied to, leaving it smelling vaguely ofcamphor.
A 10 cm length of slippery cord. Its thickness responds to the amplitude of sound.
A disc of some sort of transparent material. Holding it up to your eye reveals a multitude of labelswhich it applies to everything you look at through the disc. Sadly, the language keeps shifting fromone set of symbols to the next, and never one which is known.
A miniature figurine that dances when you blow on it.
The canine of a long dead beast drops blood in the presence of predatory animals.
A seed pod that sprouts edible fruit when dipped in water.
Pocket watch that doesn't have hands yet can be used as a sundial when placed in sunlight.
A chipped glass bead that allows one to see great distances when looking through it.
A small metal table with tiny magnetized figures. The table can be made to vibrate, causing thefigures to move about randomly on the surface.
A square of black synth with several oddly shaped holes cut into it revealing a freely rotatingmetallic-synth disc. The entire object is slightly floppy, and appears to serve as a crude magneticstorage, but there is no way to read the limited data it contains (if indeed it contains any).
A metal skeletal hand attached to a long pole. Squeezing the grip at the end of the pole causes thehand to slightly flex its fingers.
A black synth sphere filled with an unknown liquid. On one side is a transparent section throughwhich a small object with unknown writing can be seen.
A synth simulacra of a child that has eyes that open and close depending on its orientation.
A pendant of blue crystalline material from which tiny wisps of blue smoke constantly unfurl.
A tiny metal cylinder tipped with a small nodule which, when licked, delivers a slight electric tingleto the tongue.
A synth cylinder with a lens at one end. When looked into, random colored patterns can be seen.
A small, slim, featureless black rectangle of pliable, soft, but tough material. It tastes sweet butcannot be chewed or eaten.
A small rectangular device that emits maniacal laughter when shaken.
A small, clear tetrahedron that displays a different face every day. Usually the face is smiling, but onevery fifth day it is weeping. No face is ever repeated.
A white synth disc on a metal chain. if held dangling in the air, it spins rapidly and blinks when apregnant woman is nearby. Green for girl, orange for boy.
Piece of black cloth that when unfolded, displays an unknown island with several cities on it. Simplecontrols allow panning, zooming, rotation. Buildings with people and creatures are visible living outtiny little lives, but no other interaction is possible.
Small blue synth bag. When opened on a surface, hundreds of tiny, green ants march out, find nearbysmall objects (coins, pins, buttons, beads etc.) and begin hauling them back towards the bag.
A wooden box with a switch on the outside. When the switch is flipped on, a flap in the box opens, alittle arm comes out, and it pushes the switch back off, before disappearing. (This \"useless machine\"actually exists).
A pair of contact lenses which periodically blink horizontally.
A bag of sparkling plastic dust which slowly refills when emptied
A small radio which picks up the music of a bygone age
A metallic disk which lights up in alignment to overhead satellites
A ceramic whistle which summons specific, nearby servitor androids
A folded piece of synth-paper with strange words and symbols that plays foreign music whenunfolded.
A squishy ball, that changes colors when you clench it in your hand.
An apparently clear synth cube that displays a different vista \"within\" each face.
A synth torus filled with gel.
A three legged pair of trousers.
A mask that makes the wearer's face appear upside-down.
A metal polygon that gives off random odors - pleasant and foul - when touched.
Two small balls that circle each other when placed on a flat surface.
A strange earpiece that randomly tunes in to static-filled alien transmissions.
A squidgy sphere that screams and wails when it's squeezed.
A cracked mirror that shows the viewer as he was years ago, uninjured and in the prime of youthand health.
A squishy ball which returns when thrown
A triangular piece of cloth with strange markings, which when waved plays a strange tune.
A ceramic bucket which when filled with water, slowly empties to somewhere else.
A cloak which changes color to match whatever bird is closest.
A ring that moves from finger to finger each day.
A small container of golden fluid that, when poured out, pours itself back in.
A deck of oddly marked cards that shuffle themselves.
A lozenge of pliable synth that turns the holder's fingertips a random color for a day.
A tiny pot that fills itself with blue sand each day.
A pendant that makes the wearer's ears furry when worn.
A small ring that spins on its edge at great speed for precisely 11 seconds.
A fist-sized pyramid of felt-like substance that pulses slowly but steadily.
A twist of wood-like substance in which the knots and grains slowly flow.
A disk of glass-like material that leaves a glowing pink impression of whatever was last pressed on itfor up to an hour.
A transparent cube containing an hourglass-shaped vial. A figure is inside the hourglass on one side.When the cube is tilted, the figure disappears, and a different figure appears on the other side.Depending on how you tilt the cube, different figures may appear.
A glass sphere with a nearly(?) infinite progression of glass spheres within it.
A pair of shoes which reduce the weight of the wearer by 5 pounds
A pegboard with 10 pegs. The pegs change color based on patterns and/or proximity to other pegs
A non-shin coin which always reappears in the owners pocket, unchanged from its original form.
A peculiar device that removes all dirt and grease from the holder, depositing it as a ball at theholder’s feet.
A ball of sweet gum that emits light like a torch when chewed.
A golden ring with alien script that only becomes visible when subjected to flame.
An aerosol that leaves a mobile human face on any surface on which it is sprayed lasting for an hour.
An eyeball encased in crystal.
A hat designed for a two-headed being.
A fabric pocket that attaches itself to any fabric it is placed on.
A choker-like item that renders the wearer’s speech backwards when worn. Doog yrev!
A synth plate that keeps any food placed upon it hot or cold for up to an hour.
A capsule containing a biomechanical maggot that cleans the user’s teeth when placed in themouth.
A bag full of tentacles
Dwarven Engineer's Boots make walking on broken stone, rock falls, etc. as easy as walking on level ground, but anything greener than a well-manicured lawn becomes difficult terrain
A lens that grants Truesight under a clear night sky and reveals horrible prophecies in the stars
Manacles that Charm Person while applied
A holly bush fruits every week, producing 2d6 berries. Druids can use these berries as if produced by the Goodberry spell, or throw them as Fire bolt. Non-druids handling the berries must make a Con save or become poisoned.
A Rapier of Daring Deeds +1 that gives its wielder advantage on saves to avoid fear effects and adds 1 to the DM's wandering monster checks
An amulet that, when you crit on a weapon attack, summons a ghostly duplicate of your weapon that lasts for 1d6 combat rounds. It acts on your initiative and attacks your target. The amulet draws 1d3 hp from you per round to maintain the duplicate.
Sheets of magical vellum -- write a message and a trigger on them, stick them to a wall, and when the trigger occurs a Magic Mouth appears on the vellum and speaks the message. Upgraded versions sink into the wall when placed and cause the Magic Mouth to appear on the wall itself.
Fearful hauberk -- this suit of Heavy armour +1 grants the wearer advantage on Intimidation checks but disadvantage on Persuasion checks, and looks like something off of a GWAR album cover
Used by Efreeti to keep their mortal thralls obedient and well-hydrated, this Everfull waterskin never empties, but any who drink from it suffer disadvantage on Wisdom saves until they next become thirsty. It's also impervious to fire.
Coins removed from this purse will extinguish fires and freeze water they're cast into. The volume of fire or water affected depends on the value of the coin, and the coin vanishes when used. Some of these purses inflict frostbite on thieves who try to steal from them.
These rings, when braided into the wearer's hair (most commonly a dwarf's beard), are a last defense against death. If the wearer is slain or knocked unconscious by an attack, the ring vanishes and the wearer stays conscious at 1hp. Magical sources heal the wearer of this ring for one fewer hit point per application.
This dagger allows you to peel apples, oranges, potatoes, captives, &c. as a bonus action
This foul-tasting potion restores a spell slot at the cost of one hit die per spell level of the slot restored
This deep green pigment will only dissolve in blood. Once activated, the pigments may be used to draw a sigil on a door that acts as an Arcane Lock, allowing only the creature who contributed the blood to pass.
A bottle of wine that, when consumed, grants the drinker Clairvoyance for 1d6 minutes per ounce. Drinkers are poisoned while clairvoyant.
If the party starts a campfire with this magical kindling, wandering monsters will avoid them overnight and dead gods will speak to them in their dreams
Food cooked with these enchanted spices acts as a Suggestion spell, cast by the cook, on any who eat it.
Dwarven War Bread - This near-unbreakable bread can be used as a bludgeoning weapon equivalent to an adamantine club. Any creature attempting to consume Dwarven War Bread must make a DC 40 Fortitude save or break a tooth.
Boots of Tremorsense. They quickly became one of my player's most treasured items. He often talks about how they are priceless, and will never give them away. About to be ambushed by burrowing worms? Is there a lower floor to this dungeon? Does this ground seem solid enough?
Robe of Formlessness. Allows the wearer to turn into a puddle of mud that retains its senses. Useful for being sneaky, cautious, or fitting into tight places.
Ring of the red serpent. Summons a red serpent upon being adorned. The serpent used should be just below the party's level. It is a permanent companion, and quite strong, but if it dies, the ring breaks. It takes a full round action to dismiss the snake, and the player must be adjacent to the serpent at this time. The snake heals normally when recalled, so it may take several days for it to recover from a tough battle.
Obelisk Gauntlets. Gauntlets that allow the wearer to make an ornate pillar as a full round action. There may only be one pillar at a time, and how big the pillar is depends upon the level of your party.
Watcher Stone. A fist sized rock with a crudely carved eye upon it. Can be expended to project the users vision upon any surface in sight, as if they are looking from that surface (If they choose a spot on the ceiling, they look down upon themselves and the rest of the room, over walls etc;)
Sandstone. Can be broken to conjure a sandstorm in 1D4 minutes. Only works in dry, above-ground places.
Vest of deathfeasting. Black snakeskin vest. Can kill a dying creature to sap its life-force. Grants a temporary boost to the physical stats, as well as an equal amount of healing and temporary hp (D8, but it could easily be more for high level characters).
Orb of Amethyst. A jagged, unshaped chunk of amethyst in a vaguely spherical form. Wielded as a one handed weapon, allows the user to make a ray attack with a 30 ft range. This attack deals no damage, but instead teleports the target 20 ft in a direction chosen by the player. Roll a D10. 1-8 work as a splash weapon does, 9 puts them exactly where the player intended, and 10 jaunts the target into the ethereal plane for 1D3 rounds.
Babble Stones: A set of three white, smooth stones the size of your palm. These mystical stone's distort the holder's voice into in incomprehensible gibberish to all listeners. The only way to make sense of it is to hold another stone of this set.
Arrow of Traveling - the arrow's head is a small piece of quartz. When fired from a bow, the arrow activates. When the arrow lands, the arrow and the archer switch places. Good for a quick escape or getting into a high castle window. If everyone in your party carries some quartz, it can be an effective method of transportation.
Box filled with mundane items (plates, napkins, silverware) that makes you intensely desire whatever is inside it on a saved will throw.
Statue of Good Weather
Totem of Good Crops
Shirt of Good Smells
Torch of Everlasting Night: An infinite torch whose light cannot be seen unless touched by it. Meaning that the light is only seen if you are within 90 feet of the torch; great for being undetected from across a field or while sneaking in a manor.
Treant's Bane: A short sword made from stone. It slices through wood with the ease of a hot knife through butter. Otherwise this sword is treated as a crude stone sword.
A braided leather anklet that gives it's wearer full control of his/her facial hair.
Twin pitchers: Whatever sound reaches one pitcher the other pitcher will emit.
Omen Artifact has no special powers, just the following description: This small piece of glowing crystal is the most beautiful thing you have ever seen. It conveys great power and is worth an insane amount of money - of this you are absolutely certain.
This highly adorned totem, when shaken, causes all primitive creatures nearby to dance and sing.
This silver thimble unbuttons buttons, loosens drawstrings, unbuckles buckles, etc. with just a tap.
A dimly glowing sphere, warm to the touch. Surrounds the bearer with a bubble of spring, melting snow and blooming plants.
An earring that when worn, shocks the wearer every time they tell a lie.
Ermine religious robes that bestow on the wearer the ability to perceive the most recent sins of those around them.
A rustic pair of boots that allow the wearer to walk on walls, but causes severe clumsiness on\"regular\" ground
A ring, when thrown, projects a true-to-life illusion (including sound!) of everything you do for a few minutes.
An object not unlike a cluster of glass grapes, each displaying a cloudy view to another plane of existence.
A blade, that upon slaying an enemy stores their body and soul inside.
A small silver ring, that when peered through,, shows the faces of your ancestors. 
An amulet, when rubbed against any substance, imparts nutritional value and changes the texture to cheese. No change in flavor.
 Piestone: A small magic stone, about the size and shape of a good skipping stone. When rubbed between the fingers, it fills the entire room with the STRONG scent of pie. The effect created is much more powerful than a prestidigitation effect. Can blind creatures that hunt by scent, or lure things into a room.
The Fork of Greater Poultry: Anything eaten with this fork tastes like chicken.
The Knife of Perfect Cutting: A magic butter knife that changes shape depending on what you want to cut with it. It becomes a bread knife when the user thinks about cutting bread, a steak knife when he thinks about cutting meat, and transforms into a +0 broadsword when the user thinks about cutting a person. 
 The Spoon of Infinite Mixing: This spoon will continue stirring itself when inserted into a bowl or cup of liquid.
A 'God-Helmet' that explained the universe when you put it on. It usually just fried your brain though, small chance of enlightenment or instant death.
A little knife that can cut through any substance. Every time you cut through something, however, part of the knife melted away. The party ended up killing a dragon with this thing.
Bountiful Spade: Characters who use this enchanted farm implement to turn over the earth prior to planting a field receive a +3 bonus on their agriculture proficiency check for that year.
A crude, tarnished silver skullcap with three round-cut lapis lazuli set in a triangle. (88gp)
A delicate brass dragon egg; hollowed out and painted into a seascape, resting on a wooden stand. (35gp)
A collection of 6 elephant tusks. (2x12gp, 4x10gp)
A female gnome’s head, largely rotting, with an electrum and peridot nose ring. (66gp)
A scimitar with a gold and snakeskin hilt set with a citrine. (100gp)
A pair of steel flasks, sealed with wax bearing the symbol of St. Cuthbert. (Holy water, 25gp each)
A standard wizard’s spell-book with 100 pages. The first five pages hold the following spells (one per page): Arcane Mark, Light, Open/Close, Mending, and Disrupt Undead. (85gp)
A bright green cap of ettercap silk lined in black linen. (15gp)
A frost giant necklace of silver upon which are pierced 17 human-sized hands (all right hands). (Necklace: 55gp)
A large, four-post bed of mahogany with golden silk draperies. There is no mattress, pillows, or blankets. (90gp)
A mounted boar head wearing a thick golden necklace. (The head is actually that of a rakshasa, and radiates evil and illusion/transmutation to detection magic.) (45gp)
An ettin-hide cape, dyed blue, with a silver clasp shaped into a pair of malformed faces. (28gp)
A purple-colored apple. (This enchanted apple has all the properties of a potion of Cure Light Wounds. 50gp)
A carved wooden mantle, meant to be mounted above a fireplace, crafted of ash-wood and stained a medium brown. The left side is carved in images of demons and flames, the right in images of angels and air. The top is carved into an idyllic forest theme and has a moon above the left corner and a sun above the right. This piece weights just over a hundred pounds. (65gp)
A twelve sided die with arcane symbols
A pair of tarnished silver horseshoes, possibly from the Lake Terrace wererat troubles of ten years ago. (12gp each)
A large crystal vase, silver trimmed, with a dozen dead roses and some stagnant water within. (14gp)
A wicker basket with a pair of mink furs within. (20gp each)
A large, wrought-iron sign crafted to read: “Beware of Wyvern” in a bold script. The sign weighs 80 pounds. (70gp)
A silver statuette depicting entwined triton lovers. (50gp)
A 3’ square replica of a castle, in wood, complete with ramparts and miniature ballistae and toy soldiers. Scribbled in some spots are notes written in draconic that suggest a plan to assault the castle (“Kill guard here first”, “Murder holes overhead”, Fireball this area”, etc…).It weighs 120 pounds. (65gp)
A leather vest with climbing gear: 12 iron pitons, a hammer, 50’ of silk rope, a grappling hook, a set of bronze crampons, thick leather gloves, and a leather harness seat. (32gp for all)
Four cat skeletons, each wearing an identical collar; black leather set with a small tourmaline. (10gp each)
A large bronze wardrobe, banded in steel, which contains Violet Fungi (hp 15) and a human body with rotting noble’s clothing, a rusty dagger, and a thin platinum bracelet set with a moonstone. (75gp)
A rolled and oiled cloth sail sized for a warship’s main mast; dyed green and tied with rope. (60gp)
A large pile of dismantled copper pipes covered in mold and verdigris; roughly 140 pounds. (35gp)
A life-size basalt statue of a raven. (25gp)
A masquerade mask crafted of leather and peacock feathers. (12gp)
A crude altar of white granite, bloodstained, with a streak of gold ore running through it. The altar weights 300 pounds. (75gp)
A silver hand mirror with mother-of-pearl backing. (28gp)
A horse sleigh capable of seating four people comfortably. The leather has dry rot and must be replaced before being useable. (30gp)
Seven lengths of extremely thick, 30’ long, hemp rope, such as that used for catapults. (5gp each)
A granite fountain designed to look like a school of brightly colored fish cresting sea waves. The fish are bedecked in colored glass, silver, and copper scales. Water coming out of the six ‘above-water’ fish is designed to be tinted to the colors of the rainbow by the colored glass. (1355 colored glass scales: 1cp each, 245 copper scales: 2cp each, 245 silver scales: 2sp each. The fountain is valued at 100gp if the entire thing can be moved.)
A silver-headed heavy mace, the head of which is shaped into the likeness of a ram’s head. (90gp)
A tower shield of bronze, cast into the likeness of a chimera’s heads and enameled to provide the appropriate colors. (85gp)
An ivory-colored robe of fine wool which is capable of bursting into illusory flames once a day for up to one minute. The command word, “Fladarro”, is stitched in red thread on the left sleeve. (100gp)
A lovely ivory-colored dress of silk with flowing sleeves. The dress has tiny pearls sewn at the neckline. (70gp)
A pair of blue enameled steel spiked gauntlets. The palms of both gauntlets are designed to display the Cambersome family crest, a stylized ‘C’ shaped into the likeness of a coiled serpent. (90gp)
A baby rattle crafted of silver. (10gp)
A merchant’s leather case containing a selection of twenty well-made daggers of varying designs. (2gp each)
A brass chamber pot in which has been hidden 3 pieces of rosy quartz. (Chamber pot: 3sp, rosy quartz: 4gp, 7gp, 12gp)
An iron tomb plaque (for setting on a tomb to identify its occupant), that has rusted away to reveal a hollow space within, in which is a rolled scroll of very thin, beaten gold. The scroll is etched in an ancient language (“The treasure of the Wavestar is secured in the cave of the cove.”), and has a crude map showing a coastline with unknown markings (star readings for ships). Research can find that the Wavestar was a merchant ship that was presumably lost at sea over a hundred years ago. (80gp for the scroll)
A mithril-headed branding-iron bearing the sigil of the Manticora Trading House. (100gp)
An electrum drow house-medallion bearing the image of a crimson scorpion with the house name inscribed on the back in the drow tongue (House Ulrather). (20gp)
A small cedar cask of dwarven pipe tobacco. (25gp)
A small wooden case holding four pairs of fairy wings. (4gp per pair to an alchemist, wizard, or university)
A cross-section of an ancient goldenbough tree, roughly a foot thick, which has been meticulously carved into a three-dimensional map of the terrain of the kingdom with major cities, castles, and ports marked accurate to about forty years ago. The whole weighs in at three hundred pounds. (50gp)
A (non-magical) crystal ball that radiates divination magic if detected for. (15gp)
A large pile of coal. Two small, rough diamonds are hidden near the bottom. (20gp, 25gp)
An iron flask holding a viscous liquid of intense, emerald-green that smells faintly of citrus fruit. The liquid is a concentrated, magical dye for clothing and the like, equal to four full barrels of normal dye. If consumed, it turns the drinker green for a full month. (65gp)
A crude bone rod made from a goblin’s femur and set with a cracked jet stone lashed to the rod with cartilage. (A former ‘wand of bestow curse’ used by a goblin witch-doctor, now drained of charges. 20gp)
Grandfather's broadsword, plain but quality. An unknown script runs along the inner side of the scabbard.
Floppy hat.
100 feet of rope.
jug of pickled eggs.
A healing ointment of your mothers, heals 2hp per application. Four applications.
A sock full of sling stones.
A cat, it followed you into the village.
A scroll of deposit worth 168 gold pieces if presented to a member of the Auric Brotherhood of money changers.
A shortbow and quiver of eight arrows.
A prayer book.
A ratty kilt.
A flute.
An extra pair of boots.
Two men-at-arms sworn to six months service. Armed with Chainmail, shield, and spear.
A hooded cloak with a dozen inside pockets.
A golden signet ring, origin unknown.
A dwarven tunnel dog, loyal and well trained. A gift from \"uncle Guorgi\".
Ten sticks of chalk.
A hide of fine leather.
A dozen hard sausages.
A five gallon cask of usk brandy.
Four yarpick thorn javelins.
A phostwood staff.
A ham.
A boar spear.
A set of four horse shoes.
An ink pot, quills, and sheaf of paper.
A small bag of salt, and one of pepper.
A sewing kit.
A dozen 12 hour candles.
A small soapstone carving of a boar. (non-magical)
A tough leather sack.
A pound of goat jerky.
Father's old round shield, (medium), beneath the boss is the sigil of Heironious, valiant conduct by the bearer may draw the eye of the God.
A map of the kingdom.
A bundle of letters to be delivered.
A hoe.
A huntsman's horn.
A small drum.
A trolls hand mounted on a three foot rod. It will grasp objects, or make a fist. commands, grabit, leggo, fist. You found it in the Forrest gripping a tree branch.
A bestiary, allows the player to ask a question of the DM about any creature listed in the monster manual, fiend folio, or monster manual II, during the game.
A broad belt with bronze plates.
A long stem pipe and bag of pipe weed.
A hand axe and belt sheath.
A stone fire pot.
A lute.
A very nice squash.
A sack of nuts.
A large copper pot.
A full face mask.
A holy symbol.
A roll of halfling made gardening tools. trowl, fork, rake, seed hole spike.
A masons hammer.
A hand saw.
A set of four chisels.
A scroll tube containing the deed to the Riven Tower of Ghasdac.
A tiny jar of glitternight dust. (a narcotic)
A roll of ten torches.
A sack of dry beans.
A snake.
A bundle of eight bow staves. (unfinished)
A bag of apple seeds.
Flint and steel fire starter set.
A bottle of perfume.
Forty feet of steel wire on a spindle.
A camp knife.
A game of stones with a cloth board.
A piglet.
A pack mule.
A heavy wool blanket.
A wax paper packet of blue dye powder.
A pair of bear fur knee breeches.
A straw broom.
A high quality sharpening stone.
A bolt of undyed linen.
The flu.
A small sundial on a necklace.
Frolees five page guide to mustaches and beards.
A six inch Crystal lens.
A small silver mirror.
A large loaf of tasty bread.
A Ring of Luck, +1 on all saves, roll again on this list.
A fishing pole, with line and hook.
A tortoise shell hair comb.
A bird net.
A copper tongue scraper.
A pair of heavy leather gloves.
A bag of candied fruits.
An adventurous pixie has decided to become your henchman.
A wand of eye poking. four charges. It will unerringly poke out the eye of target creature within arms reach. no roll needed.
An excellent Sheppard's pie.
A large bar of hard soap.
A cow.
A fine fighting axe.
A small bag of uncut semi-precious stones.
A dozen glow wasps in a round wire cage with handle. Equal to torch light at night. Require food and water daily.
A scroll of sheet music.
A chirugeons bag of knives and tools.
A quart of honey.
Dice.
A cloak of griffon feathers set on black velvet. (60gp)
A large (30”x24”), oval serving tray of (tarnished) silver trimmed in gold. (55gp)
A broad dagger with a hilt that can be unscrewed. The space revealed is sufficient to hold up to 25 coins, and currently holds 10 gold coins and 15 silver coins. (Dagger value: 15gp)
A bronze-reinforced wooden chariot sized for two riders, painted red and yellow. (80gp)
A set of scale mail created from copper coins with matching gauntlets. (80gp)
A delicate silver chain set with a tourmaline (28gp)
A set of five small silver statuettes (each about 2” tall) consisting of a cat, an owl, a falcon, a horse and a griffon. (5gp each)
A pair of silk slippers encrusted with tiny pearls. (95gp)
A silver brooch depicting a mage’s tower. (This could be a pass for magical wards at the mage’s tower, at the DM’s discretion.) (12gp)
A used, slightly rusted (but usable) double-bladed sword. (60gp)
A leather string holding 11 silver shuriken. (2gp each)
A small bag of saffron. (22gp)
A large copper shield, embossed with a (copper) dragon’s head. “Elvalynte” is inscribed on the interior in a flowing script. (34gp)
A battle pennant, triangular in shape, of a black dragon on red silk. The staff is a silver-tipped lance. (Pennant: 30gp, Lance: 25gp)
A bandolier holding 8 silver flasks (empty (x3), brandy (x2), acid (x1), ogre blood (x1), gold dust (x1, value of gold: 12gp). (Flasks: 3gp each, bandolier: 5gp, ogre blood (to alchemist): 12gp, acid: 10gp, brandy: 5sp each)
An inverted monkey skull filled with silver and gold shavings. (Total value: 13gp)
A large tome filled with over one hundred recipes for wild boar, goose, and venison; written by Kilan Wester, a former royal chef (retired). (95gp)
A life-sized copper and silver statuette of a cockatrice. (17gp)
A leather bag containing 6 green dragon scales (young adult). (5gp each)
A two-wheeled cart carrying 48 oak planks. (Cart: 15gp, Planks: 5sp each)
A rolled painting, oil on canvas and roughly 36”x44”, depicting the hero Balsallard defeating the Giant-King Maan, painted by Balsallard’s squire at the time, Wespin Condelouche. (60gp)
A large (18”x28”), rectangular electrum sheet with ancient writing on it. The writing, if deciphered, is a brief history of a powerful magical item known as the House of Winds, with several clues as to where the item may have been lost fourteen hundred years ago. The House of Winds is described as an ornate mithral helm of legendary power. (75gp)
A weapons cabinet, unlocked and immovable, containing: 12 score arrows (1gp/score), 40 javelins (1gp each), 120 crossbow bolts (1sp/each), and a short bow (30gp). (Total value: 94gp)
An ironbound chest with an average lock. (55gp)
An elaborate, whalebone scrimshaw carving of intertwined orbs, each showing the legend of creation story of one of the seven civilized religions, roughly 10” in diameter. (45gp)
A battleaxe of iron sized for a fire giant. (35gp)
Studded leather armor made from sharkskin set with iron disks. (44gp)
An abacus with copper, silver and gold markers. (100gp)
A skeleton trapped in rusting scale mail with eight rotted bolts piercing both the mail and the corpse. (Scale mail: 25gp, usable if repaired by a skilled armorer (cost of repair is 15gp)
A finely crafted rug of intricate, geometric designs worked with silver threading. Careful examination (Search DC: 16) reveals an inscription in dwarvish runes laced in the threading: “When the sky boils, the sentinel returns.” The dimensions of the rug are 4ft x 6ft. (50gp)
A roughly beaten golden orb, roughly 10 inches in diameter. The orb is etched with the likeness of an orcish skull with an axe embedded in it. This was used by an orcish chieftain as his “royal orb”. (72gp)
A miniature (3 inch) silver gauntlet, trimmed in mother-of-pearl. (Could this be a failed spell component in an attempt to improve one of the ‘Hand’ spells? Or, is it the lost gauntlet of a fairy prince? Or, some remnant of a real gauntlet affected by a curse, perhaps?) (25gp)
A set of three porcelain ewers in blue flowers on a white field with silver trimming along the rim. A fourth, the largest, is shattered, but the silver is salvageable. (8gp, 12gp, 20gp, 2gp)
A large tome bound in thick bison-hide that is a common-orcish language primer, as well as a primer on orcish culture. The author of the primer, Darius Woodherd, seems to have added a lot of information on orcish heraldry and politics, as well. Darius spent almost twenty years amongst the orcs of the north, and eventually married an orc before being killed a score of years ago in a rival tribe’s ambush. Access to this book allows a +2 circumstance check on speaking orcish, knowledge of orcish history and heraldry, and on diplomacy checks when dealing with orcs. (90gp)
A pinewood totem pole of the northern barbarians, bearing six faces (from top to bottom): a hawk, a demon, an elk, a man, a fox, and a white dragon. The hawk has a silver feather on the left side of its face (8gp), the demon has a gold nose-ring (6gp), the elk has copper antlers (4gp), the man has electrum eyes (3gp each), the fox has a black onyx nose (15gp), and the dragon has ivory teeth (30 teeth worth 1gp each). The pole is fifteen feet tall and weighs 200 pounds. (4.57m, 90.7kg)
A pair of stuffed ermines, poised as if listening, mounted on a rough oak plank. (Pelts: 20gp each)
A rapier in an ornate, electrum-trimmed steel scabbard worked in swirl-patterns. (Rapier: 20gp, Scabbard: 45gp)
4 ceramic canopic jars, holding the stomach, intestines, lungs, and liver of a long-ago monarch. Each has a golden lid with a likeness of a paunchy, hook-nosed man with pale skin and a squint. (20gp each)
A miniature golden chest with tiny emeralds lining the top that trace out a mage’s sigil. The chest is crafted in exquisite detail. (This is the material component of a “Secret Chest” (from the spell of the same name) for the ruthless lady-mage Aumurille, who will likely want it back....) (75gp)
Six stuffed wolfhounds with black leather collars set with white onyx. (Collars: 10gp each)
Two spools of delicate threading; one of silver and the other made of gold. (Silver: 5gp, Gold: 25gp)
A finely crafted steel trident wrapped in sharkskin. Four rows of shark teeth line the shaft just below the tines and three small holy symbols of a water-demon cult are etched in the steel near the butt end. (33gp)
A dwarven holy symbol in silver; shaped into a flaming war-hammer set against an anvil-shaped backdrop. (55gp)
A collection of 6 wigs in varying lengths and hues on wooden head-shaped molds. The third (a curly green-haired piece that falls well past the shoulders) has a silver and pearl hairclip. (Wigs: 2gp each, hairclip: 42gp)
A brightly colored maple-wood case filled with an assortment of cheap, costume jewelry and makeup. Tucked away in a latched interior compartment is a paper flyer advertising “Gammul’s Traveling Troupe – Magicians! Acrobats! Dancers! Players! See the finest entertainers in seven lands!” (14gp for the lot)
A single, platinum skeleton-key on a platinum ring. The key is finely crafted, with a delicate design etched in elvish characters along the length and across the bow. (37gp)
A pair of blacksmith’s puzzle; each has a pair of interlocked iron designs that users try to take apart and put back together. (8gp, 12gp; Intelligence DC: 12 and DC: 14 check to solve (the second puzzle is harder than the first), which can be repeated every 10 minutes of working on the puzzle until solved.)
A spell component pouch (worth 5gp) containing: 6 pieces of cured leather (Mage Armor), 2 small replicas of an archery target (True Strike), A small piece of silk (Magic Aura), some sand (Sleep), 2 small pouches of gold dust (25gp each, Arcane Lock), some talc and powdered silver (1gp, See Invisibility), and 3 pieces of gum Arabic with eyelashes embedded in them (Invisibility).
A detailed rose, with petals and thorns, constructed of silver and electrum. (40gp)
A brown and red flecked egg, about the size of a loaf of bread, that gives off a rancid scent. (Troglodyte egg, worth 50gp to an interested alchemist, wizard, or university)
A 50lb canvas sack of duck down feathers. (15 gps)
A soapstone jug containing a large wad of ambergris.
A famous battle banner, long lost, smells badly.
A reliquary containing the bones of an ancient holy man.
A litter of boar hound puppies. (Six, weaned)
A cloth roll of ornamental bird feathers, such as used in clothing.
A fragile bottle of a rare perfume.
Fifty pounds of fine bees wax.
100 5\"x6\" diamond panes of clear glass.
A very large honing stone slab of the highest quality. 1' x3' x 8\" thick.
A 1 quart jar of rare purple snail dye.
A bolt of fine silk.
A 40lb block of rock salt.
A jagged rod of amber with a sprite entombed within. 3' long.
An 8' golden horn.
A crate of shoemaker’s tools. ( last, hammers, tacks, hobnails, etc. (400 gps)
spice chest containing waxed fabric bags of rare and costly spices.
A solid jasper dinner service for 12 persons.
A sack of prized flower bulbs. (50 gp)
A 40 gallon barrel of Old Slodar’s uesgah. (400lbs, 800gp)
A very large scroll tube containing the plans for many of the ancient war engines of Armentarious.
16 unfinished sword blanks of highest quality steel. (220 gp)
A complete barding for a war horse made of bullette horn plates.
A large, ornate field tent such as a lord would have. Room for 12 persons. (1200 gp)
A tome of bawdy wood cut illustrations.
A ream of vellum sheets.
An ogre skull soup tureen with gold mountings.
A small sack containing 32 carved ivory mice.
An oboe-like musical instrument made from a troll’s femur.
An old boot filled with chunks of silver-bearing quartz ore. (50 gp)
A 40 lb cask of fine quality olive oil.
A water clock. 3' x 3' x 4', 87 lbs.
Four pairs of snow serpent fur felt stockings. (20 gp)
An old wooden bucket full of mismatched silver spoons.
A stuffed and mounted osquip.
A pair of pole mounted fans made of giant raven feathers.
A solid gold plumb bob mounted with six cabochon sapphires.
A life sized ivory carving of a chicken.
A dozen quality daggers in a rolled up rug.
A stoppered behir horn containing 300 gp worth of powdered electrum.
Four ½ lb bricks of compressed Black Lotus pollen.
A bearer-order allowing the possessor to take ownership of a dozen slaves from Zoealage the flesh-monger.
A 3' diameter sealed glass sphere containing water and a live ornamental fish.
A sheaf of loose leaf music written by the infamous conjurer, Wyrdlbr the Composarch.
An unhafted axe head of exceptional craftsmanship. It’s faces are inlaid with a faience scene showing a crowd of human villagers throwing a halfling down a well.
Thirty storm giant minted gold coins, each is the size of a dinner plate and weighs 17 lbs. The image stuck on the coins shows a giant hand flicking a human off of a table top.
A 40' coil of rare sea shells strung on a silken cord.
A 1' x 3' bronze plate bearing the ancient, and secret recipe for Black Mountain Stout.
A complete set of bronze and carved stone weight training equipment issued to the 4th army of the Ancient Empire. (900 lbs)
A 6' stack of 1\" x 8\" x 12' planks of rare, scented jewel wood.
A life sized copper statue of a fat cat with amber eyes. Purrs if stroked, does not detect as magic.
Four silk bags containing powdered illuminators pigments. ( 1 lb each)
A large bale of rare furs. (2000 gp)
A 35 lb keg of iron nails. (30 gp)
A wicker tube containing a neat stack of 38 pointed wizardly hats.
A large oak chest of carpenters tools of very good quality. Axes, adzes, planes, saws, knives, scrapers, braces, etc. (requires two persons to move. 250 gp)
A 5' diameter wheel of fine, aged cheese. (75 lbs, 54 gp)
300 bottles of Burglum’s Old Quarry red wine.
A pair of large balloon leg pantaloons made of blue velvet and sewn with tiny pearls depicting flamingos in flagrante delicto.
Six giant temple candles. Each is 6' tall, 1' thick, and 100 lbs. They are made of fine white wax, rolled in gold dust, and set with emeralds. (320 gps each.)
The secret second ledger of Murhamble the Money-lender. It reveals exactly how he has cheated the tax collector of the local lord out of thousands of gold pieces over the last decade.
A dozen costly incense cones. 12\" tall, wrapped in waxed paper.
A large arbalest/bolt thrower. It is disassembled and crated for shipping. It requires four strong men to lift. When reassembled, it hurls a 5' bolt for 2d12 dmg. 3000 gps value.
A chest of stone masons tools. Hammers, mallets, sets, chisels, wedges, etc. ( 300 gps)
An abacus with counting beads made of ivory, silver, gold, and vitrified eye balls. (120 gps)
A complete set of balls and pins used for playing bowls. They are painted with insulting caricatures of famous kings and priests.
Fifty six 1' x 2' writing slates with a box containing 400 pieces of chalk.
A small leather case containing tattooing needles, (12), and colored inks.
A very large and heavy, (140 lbs), bronze mortar and pestle for mixing alchemical agents. It is inlaid with enameled alchemical symbols. (800 gps)
A carved jade toilet stool with a hammered gold basin. Clean.
A filthy bucket containing copper and silver coins, rings and necklaces worth 820 gps, also, 3/4 of a gallon of urine.
A large barrel of pickled eels. (32 gps)
A fabric bag containing two dozen sealed glass jars of various medicinal herbs.
A wheel barrow filled with buttons. Ivory, bone, wood, glass, silver, and gold.A solid gold door knocker cast in the form of a winged phallus. (10 lbs)
A butter churn made of bone slats, bound with hoops of silver. A scrimshaw scene depicting a crowd of human villagers beating a halfling with shovels and hoes wraps around it.
A six foot long smoking pipe made of ivory, possibly a narwal horn, carved to look like a twisting serpent.
A wheeled trunk containing two dozen very detailed marionettes, and puppet show props.
A pair of mummer’s stilts. (10 gps)
A crown of severed, mummified fingers. Each finger bears three jeweled rings. (2200 gps)
A stuffed catoblepas head mounted on an eight foot pole, with colored ribbon streamers.
An arm chair carved entirely of a single piece of coal. Inlaid with silver runes.
An owlbear costume.
A large, boxed chess set. All the pieces are small, dead pixies somehow sealed within glass.
A set of dies and hammers for minting the kings coinage.
A dirty canvas bag containing twenty pounds of an aphrodisiac root. (1000gps)
A table top planar armillary, bronze. It’s dials rotate to show the relation of the inner and outer planes to the prime material, as well as the influence of the Gods and Planets, at any time during the year. (1200 gps)
A 3' diameter globe of the Game World. It hangs on a silver chain. The globe shows features of the game world which are not common knowledge.
A 6\" wide, 3\" tall cone of loadstone. The top of the cone attaches to a 20' silken cord. It takes a pull equal to 85 lbs of force to free the loadstone from any metal object.
A finely made 10' x 12' wool floor rug. The center of the rug depicts a scene of siege warfare. A halfling is being flung over a city wall by a trebuchet.
A gear-driven ships navigational calculator enclosed in a jewelwood box. (5000 gps)
One hundred and sixteen 3\" white porcelain discs, each has a 1 ounce knob of electrum embedded in it’s center.
A two gallon stone ware jug containing hallucinogenic tree sap syrup. (20 gps)
The last remaining copy of Sewryd of Swrdlby’s True and Proper guide to the work of the Husbandman, and treatise on the Three Field Crop Rotation. (500 gps)
A small bag containing 58 clay sling bullets. Each bullet has a 12 gp opal hidden inside.
A long, narrow wooden box containing forty, ½ lb rolls of quality smoking leaf.
A 1/10th scale shipbuilders model of a sailing cog. ( 200 lbs, 2500 gps)
 A surveyor’s transit and measuring stakes, plus a measuring chain with marks for 1, 2, and 3 hides worth of land. (800 gps.)
A Compass that always points to Mulmaster.
A paper fan that won't produce a breeze no matter how hard it's waved.
A petrified potato that resembles someone important to you.
A glass cup that can only be filled half way no matter how much liquid is pored into it.
A mirror that only shows the back of your head.
A small glass bird that when set down near water dips its head in as if to get a drink.
A lady's coin purse containing two sharp fangs.
A small sea conch with the words \"From the beginning\" painted on the lip.
A frost-covered silver locket that's frozen shut.
A seal which imprints a mysterious, unknown coat of arms into hard rock.
A small wooden doll that when held brings back fond memories.
A small handmirror which only reflects inanimate objects.
A glass eyeball that looks about of its own accordance, and can roll around.
A glass orb that replicates yesterday's weather inside itself.
A drinking cup, that randomly fills with fresh or salt water. Refilling once emptied.
A deep blue piece of flint, that when struck with steel produces not a spark but a drop of water.
A conch shell which is always damp and constantly drips saltwater.
A charred, half-melted pewter clasp that glows as if smoldering but releases no heat.
A clockwork finch that flaps its wings in the presence of a breeze.
A unbreakable sealed jar of glowing water that hums when shaken.
A small, finely polished geode whose crystals slowly fade between every color of the spectrum.
A rough stone eye pulled from a petrified creature.
A stone smoking pipe that never needs lighting.
A small whistle, that when blown, whispers a name  of a person or place unknown to you, instead of the whistle sound.
A fist sized rock that \"beats\" like a heart.
A pair of bronze scissors in the shape of a pair of leaping dolphins.
A bronze oil lamp which is rumored to have once held a genie.
A single gauntlet inscribed with a fire motif and an unfamiliar name in Primordial.
A one-eyed little fish inside a spherical vial, much bigger than the vial's neck. He has a cunning look.
The tiny skull of a rabbit that whispers scathing insults when nobody is looking.
A rag doll in the likeness of an owlbear.
The desiccated body of a small eight-legged black lizard.
A small toy boat made with a walnut shell, toothpick, and piece of cloth.
A small pocket mirror that slowly fogs over while held.
Wind chimes that glow when the wind blows.
A small, clay square with an unknown rune etched into one side.
A tea kettle that heats itself when filled with water.
An old scratched monocle which shows an underwater landscape whenever someone looks through it.
A rose carved from coral.
A set of dice with elemental symbols and primordial runes instead of pips or numbers.
A amulet filled with liquid that churns, freezes, or boils to match its wearer's mood.
A small silver bell that makes a sound like quiet, distant thunder when it's struck.
A small vial of black sand that glows slightly in the moonlight.
A small whale tooth with etched with an image of waves crashing upon a beach.
An hourglass in which the sands pour upward instead of downward.
A glass pendant with a hole in the center that a mild breeze always blows out of.
A soft feather that falls like a stone when dropped.
A large transparent gem that, when gripped tightly, whispers in Terran.
A small crystal snowglobe that, when shaken, seems to form silhouettes of dancing forms.
Half of a palm-sized geode that pulses dimly with purple light.
A book filled with writing that only appears when the book is held underwater.
A sealed envelope made of red leather that you haven’t been able to open. It smells of campfire.
A locket of hair that is rumored to have come from a famed fire genasi.
Flint and steel that, when used to start a faire, creates a random colored flame.
A blank piece of wet parchment that never seems to dry.
A small puzzle box made of brass, that is slightly warm to the touch.
A cloudy chunk of glass that is said to hold a spark of breath from a blue dragon.
A crude chalice made of coal.
A miniature brass horn, silent when played, but fills the air with the scent of warm and exotic spices.
An eye-sized blue pearl that floats in salt water.
A tuning fork made from a dark metal which glows with a pale, white light during thunderstorms.
A small vial that is always filled with the smell of autumn wind.
A clear marble that slowly rolls toward the nearest source of running water.
A small collapsible silver cup that perspires constantly when opened.
An hourglass that tells time with falling mist instead of sand.
An ornate razor, which only cuts in freezing cold temperature.
A shark tooth covered in tiny etched words from a lost language.
A large brass coin with no markings or images on it.
A small wooden box filled with a strange red clay.
A necklace with a small, rusted iron anchor.
A small brass flute adorned with silver wire that is always faintly sounding.
A red and black Aarakocra feather.
A palm-sized stone with a hole in it, through which can be heard a constantly whispering wind.
A small conch shell covered in black crystal.
A small music box made of brass. It features a pair of tiny automatons that resemble Azer working at a forge.
A glass jar containing the preserved corpse of an unfamiliar aquatic creature.
A piece of petrified wood carved into the shape of a seashell.
A wooden puzzle cube covered in elemental symbols.
A small stone cube that acts as a magnet when placed against another stone.
A ring made of a white metal. On the  inside is a name etched in Auran.
A bracelet made of silvered fish hooks.
A journal filled with poetry hand-written in Primordial.
A yellow gemstone that glows dimly when a storm is nearby.
A charred chisel with an unfamiliar symbol stamped into its base.
A canteen filled with a foul smelling orange mud.
A faceless doll made of driftwood.
A heavy iron key bearing the name of a ship long lost to the sea.
A small jewelry box made from the shell of a turtle.
A chess piece fashioned to look like fire myrmidon.
A spinning top with an image of one of the four elements on each side.
A single hoop earring made of a porous red stone.
An arrowhead carved from seasalt
A small comb made of blue coral.
Seven small beads of sandstone on a string, all different colors.
A romance chapbook written in undercommon titled \"Just one Layer of Grey\".
A tiny, broken clockwork Harpy.
An ivory whale statuette.
A fist-sized cog, covered in barnacles.
An eyepatch made of obsidian and a black leather cord.
A glass bottle with a tiny ship of unfamiliar design inside.
A needle that becomes immovable when the command word is spoken. (You don't know the command word.)
A horn made of ivory, instead of sound it produces wind
A pair of stone sandals, they are more comfortable than any shoes you've worn thus far.
A small flat stone that sticks to whatever it touches.
A piece of twine that when plucked produces a low tone.
A pair of leather gloves, when worn you can not touch anything with them.
A obsidian comb that makes hair curlier when used.
A marble that rolls towards the closest female/male of your species.
A small mouse that can talk to you with telepathy. (Dc 10 animal handling to befriend it, or it shouts obscenities in your mind.)
A thimble that cannot be crushed by any means.
A flaggon that constantly sweats ale.
A flask that can capture any scent when the command word is spoken, and the release it when it's spoken again. (You know the command word.)
A pair of goggles that look stylish on only you.
A set of small metal balls that vibrate when touched together.
A glass bottle with two openings. Things can only go through on end and out the other.
A small drum that when held slowly beats with your heart.
A glass finger that causes painful headaches when in your possession for more than 24 hours.
A beret that when worn causes peseants to refer to you as colonel.
A loin cloth that constantly blows gentle as if it was in wind.
A coin purse that sounds, and feels like it's filled, but is not.
A quill pen that can write in the air. (Requires ink and lasts 24 hours.)
A piece of paper that writes back to you when you ask it questions.
A roc talon that grips objects and never lets go until the command word is spoken. (You don't know the command word.)
A leaf that is perpetually on fire, the flame cannot spread and illuminates an area of 10ft.
A locket with a picture of a person you vaguely remember, each time you close it the picture changes.
A glass orb with a tiny dragon in it. The glass orb can not be broken in any manner, and the dragon connot die. The dragon does react to stimuli and can speak.
A feather that is hot to the touch.
A vial of viscous blue liquid, when poured out the liquid slowly creeps back into the vial.
A potion that changes your gender for 24 hours. (You don't know what it does, and no one can identify it.)
A cotton ball that laughs when no one is around.
A ring that always feels cold to the touch. When you wear it you can hear whispers from a distant being.
a scale from a wyvern that when thrown always returns to you.
The feather of a angel, when shaken it produces a brilliant gold dust, this dust is highly addictive.
A small tree in a pot. Each day the tree grows a single fruit, each tenday the fruit is different.
A stool that follows you where ever you go.
A gear that slowly spins of it's own accord.
A wooden carving that is shaped like your mother, it changes shape for whomever holds it.
A holy symbol made from a strange bone, it makes no sound, and you cannot identify which god it's the symbol of. (Mask)
A mask made of oak, when it is worn your voice becomes 2 octaves deeper. It can be worn backwards, this makes your voice two octaves higher.
A ball of twine that cannot be untangled.
A piece of glass that constantly refelects a rainbow.
A small crab that loves you unconditionally, the crab is immortal and follows you everywhere.
A silver rod that changes color with your mood.
A sponge that can absorbed much more liquid than it should be able to. (10 gallons)
A skull that mumbles racist slurs whenever it sees an elf. It's drawven in shape.
A fork that will pierce anything.
A foggy mirror, when cleaned it always returns to being foggy.
A red earring that when worn allows you to speak Abyssal, but only say \"I don't speak Abyssal. I only know that sentance, and this one explaining it.\"
A mushroom that tastes of strawberry, and when planted grows to fifteen feet tall.
A brass ball that constantly smells horrible, when sleeping near it you always have pleasant dreams.
A drawing of a manatee, the manatee moves withing the frame.
The eye of a beholder, it blinks and looks around of its own accord. (It has \"Beauty\" carved in it's pupil.)
A flute that sounds different for everyone that hears it.
A necklace that always fits anyone who wears it perfectly.
A bamboo straw that when blown into produces water (Up to ten gallons a day.)
A stone that bounces off anything. It have jagged edges.
A monocle that increases your sight in that eye by 10ft.
A dull sword that cannot be sharpened. It produces musical notes when you swing it.
A crown made from reeds that lets you talk to amphibians.
A golden finch, when the command word is spoken it becomes alive. (You don't know the command word.)
A letter from a fiance you didn't know you had. If you drop it it'll always reappear on your person.
A small vial with an insect inside, it seems very angry.
A sea shell that a girl sold you on the shore. It was overpriced, but when you look at it you always smile.
A box that holds the heart of the faerie queen.
A bottle of black sand that is flammable.
A signet ring with draconic symbols. When used to seal something in wax the symbols move.
A cowl made of raven feathers. It makes you appear edgy, and you gain the personality of a loner.
A statue of a zebra, no one can tell if it's black with white stripes or white with black stripes.
An invitation to visit an amazonian tribe, there is a map burned with arcane magic into the letter. It's painful to read.
A vial that constantly leaks honey.
A fishing hook that cannot be bent.
A stone shaped like a heart that makes common folk like you. If it is broken you become depressed for 1d10 days.
Drift wood that smells of salt, it can be bent by hand.
A teleportation circle diagram. You don't know how to use it, or where it will take you.
A whistle that when blow causes you to fly 5ft backwards. (3 uses a day)
A belt with a pocket that has more room than it should. (Holds up to a five foot cube worth of items.)
A pouch of white sand that always refills itself each day.
A tiny statue of a praying mantis. Staring at it for one minute causes horrible visions of an impending disaster.
Hand wraps that glow softly when rubbed together.
The hilt of a sword that feels heavier than it should. When the command word is spoken a blade shoots from the hilt and becomes a shortsword. (You don't know the command word.)
A glass bottle that holds a small storm. (Rain, lightning, thunder, and dark clouds. When opened the storm dissipates, but comes back each day.)
A faerie trapped in a bottle. She/he gazes at you seductively (It's only friendly towards you and other fae.)
A book of elven text, when read it makes you sleepy.
A scroll that bleeds when you open it.
A small stone with a hole in the center, smoke constantly bellows out of the hole.
A venus fly trap that will eat anything that fits in it's mouth.
A wand that when held moves about on its own accord. (This movement is a different classical song each time it's held.)
A marble that hovers three inches above your hand.
A paper fan that when used produces no breeze, but will put out any non-magical fire.
A crystal ball that shows you the person you love the most.
A vial filled with fine white hair. In moonlight they glow brightly.
A section of leather that growls when you pick it up.
A king from a chess set. He gives a helpful point of view when asked a question
A hair broach that makes you unable to speak.
A wooden doll that makes whoever looks at it uncomfortable.
A small hat that changes style every day.
A bottle that can capture a sound when the command word is spoken, when opened it repeats this sound until another is recorded. (You don't know the command word.)
An egg of unknown origin. You can tell it's alive, but don't know what will hatch.
A puzzle box that when opened (Dc 15 int) contains two items on this list.
A miniature, tame mimic
A carved marble elephant
A small round cactus with two eyes
A pocket book of dwarven poetry
A bronze box containing a tiny wooden owl
A solid blue metal sphere, one inch in diameter, with three parallel grooves around the circumference
A pouch containing ten dried peas
A ceramic puzzle cube, with each face divided into four independently rotating squares enamelled with astronomical signs
A square of bear-beetle leather, a creature unique to the misty woods of Cix
A sheet of vellum on which is crudely painted a herbal plant that you have yet to identify
A petrified frog
A twenty-sided die
A cut yellow chrysanthemum that never dies
A palm-sized iron cage: the door doesn't shut properly, as the tiny lock was broken from the inside
A blob of grey goo, slippy but safe to touch, kept in a ceramic pot
A dried sky lily, from the tip of the Godshead, an impossibly high mountain.
A glowing blue-green line, six inches long, but with no discernable radius
A pretty conch shell
A scrap of paper on which is written, in Goblin, \"My dearest Bess,\"
A keychain holding the head of a broken key
An echo pearl from the depths of the Vibration Lake
A toy crossbow
Lip balm
A fossil of an extinct many-limbed critter
A brass prosthetic nose
A corkscrew
A dried poison gland of a jaggedfish
A bronze gear on which is etched the word \"Moon\"
A map of a labyrinth, on which is pencilled a line that starts at the centre but fails to connect to the entrance
A cube of ice that never melts
A square of ironsilk sewn by the geargrubs of ancient Siclari
An ivory knitting needle
A peacock feather
A travel set of paints: someone has used up all the black
A wig of short platinum-blonde hair
A child's charm bracelet
A small bar of orichalcum, a metal only mentioned in ancient literature
A deed to a ruined tower
An invitation to a formal ball to be held in two years time
A smoking pipe carved from granite
A vial of scented oil
A preserved basilisk eye
A torn page on which is written \"Death! / Plop. / The barges down in the river flop. / Flop, plop. / Above, beneath\"
An intricate knot that nobody seems to know how to tie or untie – sailors believe it to be bad luck
Pages ripped out of an accounting journal of a local merchant
A ring with a poison reservoir for slipping into drinks and a tiny razor edge for cutting purse-strings
A glass globe of swirling green goop, no openings
A bundle of ragged \"treasure maps\" drawn by inventive local children
A sliver from a spear said to have pierced the armpit of a saint
A portfolio of pressed flowers
A small handbook of foreign coins, for travelers to identify denominations
A slightly out of date guidebook to foreign inns, taverns, and transportation
Six useless wooden tokens previously issued by a traitor-prince as currency
Two false fingernails painted with mysterious symbols
A set of cosmetic tools for cleaning the ears
A harmless stage dagger with retracting blade and blood-compartment
A floating glass orb that follows you around and makes whirring sounds
A goblin-made key that can lock any door, but unlock none
A translucent coin, minted in an unknown land
A bronze ring engraved with dark symbols that was supposedly buried with a legendary necromancer long ago
A ring carved with the unfinished insignia to a defunct secret organization
A thimble on which is an enamel painting of a turtle
A puzzle box holding 10 fingernail clippings
A pair of badly worn hairdressing scissors
A wax hand shaped to hold a large cup
A measuring tape, marked in ink at 23 inches
A seashell that is silent when held up to your ear
A coprolite
One piece of unknown paper currency with no obvious denomination
A bootlace entwined with gold thread
A dented sherrif's badge
A tiny bubble level that is calibrated incorrectly
A belt buckle
A letter of complaint to a toy shop owner
A decorative leather stud
A penny whistle that plays the same note no matter which holes are covered
A ticket admitting an adult and child onto a thing called a \"semiotic tram\"
A small glass vial holding three eyelashes
A tub of putty
A leather shoe made for a dog
A doll head with no hair and poorly applied makeup
A pewter spork
Illustrated instructions on how to make a paper hat
A clear glass dish with four round notches around the outside edge
A wire circlet that bestows upon its wearer perfect posture
A small hand-sized box covered with numbered buttons
An empty whiskey tumbler that causes any liquid poured into it to become bourbon
A book of flumph grammar
A hunk of metal which appears to be several gears jammed together at unnatural and impossible angles: attempting to turn it causes it to emit a horrible shrieking sound
A crystal prism that refracts shadow instead of light
A smokeless and odorless candle
A flat disc of layered metal and prismatic glass with a hole in the centre
An ornate pewter tankard made without a bottom
A wooden device designed to be gripped in two hands; two levers protrude from the top, and two triggers from the underside
Two perfectly identical pine cones
A sponge that can absorb 60 gallons of ale (and only ale)
A pepper grinder containing an unlimited supply of pepper unless opened, at which point it becomes half empty
A poorly cultivated bonsai juniper in a glazed ceramic pot
An oval-shaped soapstone tablet inscribed with a short list of religious prohibitions
A wooden doll with a door that opens to reveal a slightly smaller, identical, doll; this one is empty, perhaps there are still smaller dolls that are missing?
A stone figure of a snake that changes positions after every full moon.