Respected, fair, and just.
A feared tyrant.
A weakling manipulated by others.
An illegitmate ruler, in the midst of a simmering civil war.
Ruled or controlled by a powerful monster.
Part of a mysterious, anonymous cabal.
Part of a leadership struggle, in the midst of open fighting.
Part of a cabal that seized power openly.
A doltish lout.
On their deathbed, with claimants competing for power.
Iron-willed, but respected.
A religious leader.
An ineffective softy.
An effective softy.
An enormous asshole, but effective.
Caught up in a conspiracy...
An autocrat.
Democratically elected, fairly - and the people are happy with the decision.
Democratically elected, fairly - and the people are NOT happy with the decision.
Democratically elected, unfairly - and the people are happy with the decision.
Democratically elected, unfairly - and the people are NOT happy with the decision.
A strategic mastermind in politics, but NOT war. This is, however, NOT important at the current moment.
A strategic mastermind in politics, but NOT war. This IS important at the current moment.
A strategic mastermind in war, but NOT politics. This is, however, NOT important at the current moment.
A strategic mastermind in war, but NOT politics. This IS important at the current moment.
A former general, who has the undying respect of his people.
A former general, who is hated by his people for his warcrimes.
A former general, who has the undying respect of his people.
A former soldier, who is respected for his service greatly.
Undergoing a secret transformation...
Coordinating with leaders in the community to effect change in the village.
Experiencing cultural differences with his community - making him unable to effectively lead.
Lending his experiences with different cultures to the benefit of the community.
An extremely Laissez-Faire ruler.
Running out of money.
Coaching a succesor.
Extremely charismatic with nothing to hide.
Extremely charismatic with something to hide...
Experiencing visions of the future, visions he will do anything to fulfill...
Experiencing visions of the future, visions he will anything to avoid...
He/she is thought to be a tyrant.
He/she is seen as an extremist/radical.
He/she is seen as separated from the affairs of the common man.
He/she is seen as closely in tune with the needs of his people.
He/she is believed to be controlled by a consortioum of rich Guildmasters.
He/she is believed to be controlled by a consortioum of nobles.
He/she is believed to be controlled by a consortioum of influential foreigners.
He/she is directly controlled/supervised by the "higher" authorities of the region.
He/she directly coordinates with a council of elders.
He/she directly coordinates with a court of aritocrats.
He/she directly coordinates with a council of elders & a court of aritocrats.
He/she is thought to be an extremely powerful Sorceror.
He/she is thought to be an extremely wise Cleric.
He/she is thought to be an extremely intelligent Wizard.
He/she is thought to be an extremely strong Fighter.
He/she is thought to be an extremely agile 
He/she is a heavily revered (former-)adventurer.